During June 2019, an outbreak of campylobacteriosis occurred in Ask\u00f8y, an island northwest of Bergen, Norway. According to the publicly available records, over 2000 residents fell ill and 76 were hospitalised, and two deaths were suspected to be associated with Campylobacter infection. By investigating the epidemic pattern and scope, an old caved drinking water holding pool was identified that had been faecally contaminated as indicated by the presence of Escherichia coli (E. coli). Furthermore, Campylobacter bacteria were found at several points in the water distribution system. In the escalated water health crisis, tracking down the infectious source became pivotal for the local municipality in order to take prompt and appropriate action to control the epidemic. A major task was to identify the primary faecal pollution source, which could further assist in tracking down the epidemic origin. Water from the affected pool was analysed using quantitative microbial source tracking (QMST) applying host-specific Bacteroidales 16S rRNA genetic markers. In addition, Campylobacter jejuni, Enterococcus faecalis, Clostridium perfringens and Shiga toxin-producing E. coli were detected. The QMST outcomes revealed that non-human (zoogenic) sources accounted predominantly for faecal pollution. More precisely, 69% of the faecal water contamination originated from horses. An acute situation occurred on the 6th of June 2019, when dozens of residents of Ask\u00f8y (a municipality with over 29,000 citizens, located on an island approx. 1 km northwest of Bergen in Hordaland County, Western Norway, Fig. 1) suffered from diarrhoea, abdominal pain and fever. Within the next few days, hundreds of people became sick with the same symptoms typical for food- or waterborne infections. Shortly afterwards, it was discovered that drinking water supplied to half of the island population was contaminated with faecal indicator bacteria Escherichia coli (E. coli). At the same time, more people were hospitalised, and Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen reported that Campylobacter bacteria were isolated from the stool samples of the patients. This released a clear alarm that the Ask\u00f8y community was heavily hit by a large and severe waterborne outbreak of campylobacteriosis resulting in over 2000 sick people, among which 76 had to be hospitalised, and two deaths occurred which were highly suspected to be in close association with Campylobacter infection. By investigating the pattern and scale of the epidemic, it was quickly located and confirmed that one aged mountain tunnelled drinking water holding pool (H\u00f8ydebasseng HB 168 connected to the Kleppe Waterworks in Ask\u00f8y distributing water to about 15,000 people, Fig. 1) caused the entire water health crisis. Analyses on the number of water samples collected from that pool revealed the presence of faecal indicator bacteria; thus chlorination was performed and a \u201cboil water advisory\u201d was implemented for six weeks on the island. On the 24th of June 2019, after emptying water from the holding pool, the entire cave was inspected, and laser scanned. These investigations discovered a number of cracks in the rocks of the cave through which the faecally contaminated water could have seeped into the pool. Notably, heavy rain episodes occurred right before the outbreak; this part of the country (with Bergen one of the rainiest city in Europe) is one the most precipitous area in Norway. The determination of the zoogenic origin considerably shortened the entire investigation to nonhuman (zoogenic) sources, among which horses dominated. This core information is especially useful for downstream epidemic source tracking. To this end, we recommend considering the QMST tests for systematic water quality control in order to promptly disclose any potential health threats and hence prevent eventual epidemic outbreaks.