During an outbreak of diarrheal illness among residents of a trailer park in rural Vermont, 37 (30%) of 122 residents met the case definition of outbreak-related giardiasis. Convalescent-phase sera from 24 residents and 20 non-resident control subjects were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for  immunoglobulin G(IgG), IgM, and IgA antibodies to Giardia lamblia. Residents showed higher levels of parasite-specific antibody than did non-resident controls for IgG and IgA but not IgM. Nine residents with giardiasis had a higher median level of G. lamblia-specific IgA but not IgG or IgM than 15 healthy residents (0.61 versus 0.16 optical density units; P = 0.004). Moreover, parasite-specific IgA levels were higher in those consuming tap water than in those who did not (0.31 versus 0.08 optical density units; P = 0.03) and increased with increasing water consumption. Levels of serum antibody to G. lamblia, particularly IgA, may be useful in determining exposure to G. lamblia-contaminated water and illness from G. lamblia during waterborne outbreaks of diarrheal illness. The Epidemiology Division, Vermont Department of Health, Burlington, investigated an outbreak of diarrheal illness in 1986 in a residential trailer park consisting of 44 trailers and 122 residents located in rural Vermont. The investigation began after three park residents with laboratory-confirmed G. lamblia infection were reported within 2 days to the state health department; only one case of giardiasis had been reported from the same town during the previous 3 years. All park residents were interviewed in detail between 28 and 30 May 1986 regarding food and water consumption and gastrointestinal symptoms and again between 16 and 26 June to ensure that all ill persons had been identified. A case of outbreak-related giardiasis was defined as a trailer park resident who had G. lamblia cysts identified in stool or who reported three or more loose watery stools per day lasting 5 or more days between 1 April and 28 June 1986. Five days of diarrhea was required to meet the case definition to exclude persons with sporadic illness caused by common bacterial or viral pathogens, which is usually of shorter duration (2). Stool specimens collected in 10% Formalin were examined for G. lamblia cysts by the Formalin-ether concentration method (14). Stool specimens were not examined for cryptosporidia. The residue obtained by pumping 150 gallons (ca. 568 liters) of untreated park water through a wound Orlon filter (minimum pore size, 1 Fsm) was kindly examined for G. lamblia cysts by Judith F. Sauch at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, using sequential immunofluorescence-phase-contrast microscopy (13). Park water also was tested for coliform bacteria by standard methods (1). All 122 park residents completed questionnaires. One or more stool specimens were obtained from 71 (58%) residents; two or more were obtained from 18 (25%) of these. Thirty-seven (30%) residents had a case of outbreak-related giardiasis: 23 residents had G. lamblia cysts detected in stool, and an additional 14 residents had diarrhea lasting 25 days but either their stools were not tested or cysts were not identified. The peak number of cases occurred 2 weeks before the initial interviews and extended over a period of 2 months (Fig. 1). Case residents resided in 23 (52%) of the 44 trailers, and there was no apparent clustering of cases in any portion of the park. The attack rates for males and females were similar. Eight (21%) of 38 residents aged <20 years and 29 (35%) of 84 residents aged .20 years met the case definition.