In Nokia city about 450,000 l of treated sewage water was for 2 days allowed to run into the drinking water supplies of the city due to a personal error of one employee. Within the next 5 weeks about 1,000 people sought care at the municipal health centre or regional hospital because of gastroenteritis. Here we report the results of viral analyses performed by gene amplification assays from the earliest water and sewage samples as well as from close to 300 patient samples. The contaminating treated sewage was shown to harbour several enteric viruses known to cause acute gastroenteritis. Likewise, the drinking water sample was positive for noro-, astro-, rota-, entero- and adenoviruses. Noroviruses were also found in 29.8% of stool samples from affected patients, while astro-, adeno-, rota- and enteroviruses were detected in 19.7, 18.2, 7.5 and 3.7% of the specimens, respectively. The most common reason for viral waterborne outbreaks has been contamination by sewage of human origin (Maunula 2007). In previous studies enteric viruses have been reported to be present both in raw and treated sewage water (van den Berg et al. 2005). In the case reported here about 450,000 l of treated sewage water was accidentally allowed to run into the drinking water supplies of a small city of 30,000 inhabitants in Southern part of Finland, resulting into faecal contamination of the household water of about 10,000 people. In microbiological studies several pathogenic bacteria and parasites were found (to be published elsewhere) in both the contaminated drinking water and the treated sewage but here we report the results of viral analyses from the early water samples and from close to 300 patient samples. A drinking water sample was taken from a tap of water consumer at 1st December 2007, as soon as possible after the faecal contamination of drinking water was detected. The sample was transported in a coolbox to the laboratory and concentrated by the adsorption-elution method described by Gilgen et al. (1997). Briefly, 1 l sample was run through a positively charged membrane (diameter 47 mm, pore size 45 lm; AMF-Cuno, Zetapor, Meriden, CO, USA) with or without fibreglass prefilter (Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA). The patient stool samples originated from outbreak cases in all age groups: 24% from children were less than 10 years of age. The 10% faecal suspensions for RNA and DNA extraction were performed in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and the suspension was clarified by centrifugation. During the outbreak, the most typical symptoms in patients were diarrhoea and vomiting. The presence of a broad panel of enteric viruses in patients stool samples, in a tap water sample taken from the contaminated drinking water distribution network and in a sample of treated sewage suspected as the contamination source was studied by gene amplification (Table 1). As shown in Table 2 noro-, astro-, rota-, adeno- and enteroviruses were recorded in the drinking water by PCR methods. With the exception of enteroviruses the same viruses were also present in the contaminating wastewater. The genogroup GI norovirus present in the treated sewage could not be detected in the drinking water sample. Hepatitis A virus was found in neither of the water samples. Based on ct-values obtained with real-time RT-PCR, norovirus content in the drinking water could be estimated to be over 50 PCR-units per ml and in the treated wastewater at least 10 times more.