In May 1983, an estimated 865 cases of epidemic gastrointestinal disease occurred in Greenville, Florida. Surveillance of pharmacy sales of antidiarrheal medicines suggested that the outbreak was confined to Greenville and its immediate vicinity. Surveys demonstrated that the gastrointestinal illness attack rates inside and outside the city limits were 56 per cent (72/128) and 9 per cent (7/77), respectively (relative risk (RR) = 6.2); consumption of city water was associated with illness (RR = 12); and as water consumption increased, the attack rate also increased (p < 0.001). Four adults were hospitalized and one outbreak-related case of Guillain-Barre' syndrome was identified. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from specimens from 11 ill persons; serologic studies showed the development of Campylobacter-specific antibodies. Fecal coliforms were found in water samples, but Campylobacter was not recovered from water. The city water plant, a deep well system, had numerous deficiencies including an unlicensed operator, a failure of chlorination, and open-top treatment towers. Birds were observed perching on the open-top treatment tower. Of 38 birds trapped seven weeks later, 37 per cent harbored C. jejuni; however, plasmid and serotyping studies showed that strains were not the same as the common strain from ill persons. This outbreak suggests that water systems that are unprotected from contact with birds may become contaminated and a source of outbreaks of human campylobacteriosis. (Am J Public Health 1986; 76:424-429.) On May 9, 1983, the County Public Health Unit received reports of acute gastroenteritis (AGE) in Greenville and took water samples. On May 11, each of four water samples taken showed 45-47 total coliform counts (most probable number). A boil-water notice was issued and the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services (HRS) State Epidemiologist was notified. The only known large gathering of people had been at a May 4 federal cheese giveaway. A one-in-two systematic random sample (SRS) of city residents and one-in-four SRS of out-of-city residents were drawn from the municipal directory and local telephone book. Trained interviewers conducted a telephone survey May 17-21, 1983. Only persons 19 years or older were accepted as respondents. The survey covered basic family demographic characteristics; exposures to foods, water, animals and events; and details about recent illnesses in household members or visitors. A one-in-two SRS of Greenville residents without telephones was drawn from the municipal directory. Trained interviewers did a door-to-door survey of these citizens on June 2-3 using the telephone survey questionnaire. A case (ill) was defined as a person who had onset of illness between April 15 and May 17, 1983 with diarrhea (three or more loose stools in a 24-hour period) plus any other gastrointestinal symptom, or abdominal cramps of one-day duration plus any two other symptoms. Medical records of hospitalized persons from Greenville with AGE were reviewed. In January 1984, a discharge diagnosis survey was sent to 11 hospitals to identify Greenville residents who had had Reiter's disease, hemolyticuremic syndrome, erythema nodosum, or Guillain-Barre' syndrome. Greenville vital statistics records were reviewed to identify stillbirths between April and October 1983.