Contaminated water is one of the main sources of norovirus (NoV) gastroenteritis outbreaks globally. Waterborne NoV outbreaks are infrequently attributed to GII.4 NoV. In September 2009, a NoV outbreak affected a small school in Guangdong Province, China. Epidemiological investigations indicated that household use water, supplied by a well, was the probable source (relative risk 1.9). NoV nucleic acid material in concentrated well-water samples was detected using real-time RT-PCR. Nucleotide sequences of NoV extracted from diarrhoea and well-water specimens were identical and had the greatest sequence identity to corresponding sequences from the epidemic strain GII.4-2006b. Our report documents the first laboratory-confirmed waterborne outbreak caused by GII.4 NoV genotype in China. Our investigations indicate that well water, intended exclusively for household use but not for consumption, caused this outbreak. The results of this report serve as a reminder that private well water intended for household use should be tested for NoV. Cases were defined as patients with >3 loose stools and/or vomiting in a 24-h period beginning from 31 August to 10 September, 2009. A retrospective cohort investigation using a standardized questionnaire was conducted on 10 September 2009, with 5795 people interviewed in-person and 59 by phone, with 100% enrolment. We examined the well construction log, current well and chlorination conditions, and potential sources of contamination. The township Centre for Disease Control (CDC) tested the well water for total aerobic bacteria and faecal coliforms using the most probable number (MPN) technique. Standard laboratory methods were used for bacteriological investigations. The first case of gastroenteritis occurred on 4 September 2009, with the peak incidence noted on 6 September (Fig. 1). The overall attack rate during this outbreak was 1.8% with 1.7% (92/5484) of students and 5.6% (16/285) of teachers affected. In total, 2.0% (62/3153) of the entire male, and 1.8% (46/2616) of the female school population were affected. The outbreak did not extend to the adjacent residential area, where the incidence of diarrhoea remained stable. several sources of water to the school were investigated for NoV contamination. Routinely, untreated well water was first pumped into a storage tank and, from there, pumped to rooms through pipes as required. The well supplying this water was approximately 30 m deep; a drainage line at the bottom of the well leads to a place 20 m lower than the bottom of a nearby river. The well surface was completely covered, and the environment in the immediate vicinity was cluttered with debris. Microbiological investigation of the well water indicated faecal contamination: there were 2.2x103 colony-forming units (c.f.u.)/ml of aerobic bacteria and a large number of faecal coliforms, with an MPN count of 72/100 ml. Further environmental investigation was unable to determine the source of contamination. Provincial authorities should routinely monitor water systems in schools for NoV and repair damaged water systems as necessary. This will reduce morbidity and mortality in children, and allow schools to focus on education.