An outbreak in the autumn of 2005 resulted in 218 confirmed cases of Cryptosporidium hominis. The attack rate (relative risk 4.1, 95%CI 2.8-9.1) was significantly higher in the population supplied by Cwellyn Water Treatment Works (WTW). A case-control study demonstrated a statistically significant association (odds ratio 6.1, 95% CI 1.8-23.8) between drinking unboiled tap water and C. hominis infection. The association remained significant in a logistic regression analysis, with an adjusted odds ratio of 1.30 (95 CI 1.05-1.61) per glass of unboiled tap water consumed per day. This evidence together with environmental and associated microbiological investigations, and the absence of effective treatment to remove Cryptosporidium oocysts at the WTW, led to the conclusion that the outbreak was waterborne. Oocyst counts in final treated water at the WTW and at different points in the distribution system were consistently very low, maximum count in continuous monitoring 0.08 oocysts per 10 litres. Data from continuous monitoring and the epidemic curve is consistent with the hypothesis that low numbers of oocysts of C hominis were present in treated water continuously during the outbreak and these were of sufficient infectivity to cause illness. All surface water derived water supplies present a potential risk to human health and appropriate control measures should be in place to minimise these risks. An outbreak of cryptosporidiosis occurred in North West Wales in the later part of 2005. Two hundred and thirty-one laboratory-confirmed cases of cryptosporidiosis were notified between 1st October 2005 and 31st January 2006 in residents of two neighbouring local authorities, Gwynedd and Anglesey. Two hundred and eighteen of these cases were confirmed as Cryptosporidium hominis infection by the UK Cryptosporidium Reference Unit (CRU). In comparison 36 laboratory-confirmed cases of cryptosporidiosis were identified in this population during the whole of 2004. The possibility of an outbreak was identified during the first week of November 2005 as a result of a cumulative total of 21 notifications since the beginning of September, together with a marked increase in the number notified in the week commencing 31st October, which eventually totalled 15 during that week. An incident management team (IMT) was set up on 7th November to initiate investigation. Preliminary descriptive epidemiological findings suggested a possible link with the drinking water supply derived from a reservoir, Llyn Cwellyn, operated by Dwr Cymru/Welsh Water (DCWW). The lake is situated at the foot of Mount Snowdon in the Snowdonia National Park. The treated supply serves a population of approximately 60,000. There is a small village, Rhyd Ddu, approximate resident population 200, at the head of the lake. The area also receives large numbers of tourists throughout the year. Following a site visit by members of the IMT, a precautionary reminder for severely immunocompromised patients to boil their water was issued to clinicians on 18th November. We report the results of the epidemiological investigations which identified water obtained from Llyn Cwellyn as the most likely source of the outbreak and review the cases in the context of the available Cryptosporidium monitoring data. The environmental investigations that also helped to establish the public water supply as the source of the outbreak are described in an accompanying paper (Chalmers et al. 2010). Symptomatic individuals from whom Cryptosporidium oocysts were detected in faecal samples submitted to local microbiology laboratories were identified as cases and interviewed using a standard questionnaire based on that recommended in sub-appendix A4.1 of the Bouchier Report (1998), by local Environmental Health Officers. To test the hypothesis that Cryptosporidium infection was associated with the consumption of unboiled tap water a case-control study was undertaken. For the purpose of the case-control study a case was defined as a resident of Gwynedd or Anglesey aged 16 years or older with: diarrhoea (three or more loose stools in 24 hours) with an onset after 1st September; and C. hominis as the only isolate from a faecal specimen. A detailed sampling programme was undertaken to investigate the water source and catchment, described in the accompanying paper. Cases were aged 0 to 92 years, the majority were adults (131 of 218) and 30% (65 of 218) were less than 10 years of age.