Following an unusually heavy rainfall in June 2009, a community-wide outbreak of Campylobacter gastroenteritis occurred in a small Danish town. The outbreak investigation consisted of (1) a cohort study using an e-questionnaire of disease determinants, (2) microbiological study of stool samples, (3) serological study of blood samples from cases and asymptomatic members of case households, and (4) environmental analyses of the water distribution system. The questionnaire study identified 163 cases (respondent attack rate 16%). Results showed a significant dose-response relationship between consumption of tap water and risk of gastroenteritis. Campylobacter jejuni belonging to two related flaA types were isolated from stool samples. Serum antibody levels against Campylobacter were significantly higher in cases than in asymptomatic persons. Water samples were positive for coliform bacteria, and the likely mode of contamination was found to be surface water leaking into the drinking-water system. This geographically constrained outbreak presented an ideal opportunity to study the serological response in persons involved in a Campylobacter outbreak. The serology indicated that asymptomatic persons from the same household may have been exposed, during the outbr eak period, to Campylobacter at doses that did not elicit symptoms or alternatively had been exposed to Campylobacter at a time prior to the outbreak, resulting in residual immunity and thus absence of clinical signs. In the week beginning 15 June 2009, general practitioners (GPs) in the town of Tune, \u223c30 km south of Copenhagen, noticed an unusual increase in patients with acute gastroenteritis. Campylobacter spp. Were detected in stool cultures from some patients. Preliminary inquiries showed that affected persons apparently lived dispersed over the whole town and that they had not attended a common event. No increase of gastroenteritis cases was observed in neighbouring towns. On 11-12 June the area had been affected by an exceptionally heavy rainfall, causing a backflow of water from the common drainage system for rainwater and sewage into the streets. The suspicion of a waterborne gastroenteritis outbreak was raised, an outbreak investigation began and a tapwater boiling advice was issued on 20 June. In the following, we present the outbreak analysis, including a serological follow-up study of persons affected by this waterborne Campylobacter outbreak. A clinical case was defined as a person with diarrhoea (>3 loose stools in 24 h) or abdominal pain with either fever or vomiting, with symptom onset during the period 13-26 June 2009. Water samples were repeatedly taken at the waterworks and at multiple points of the water pipe network following the suspected contamination event. In 2009, the town of Tune had a population of 5052 persons (50\u00b75% female) with an average age of 40 years. The questionnaire survey was completed by a total of 1039 individuals, response rate 21%, (61% females, 39% males) ranging from 1 to 86 years (mean age 42 years). The technical assessment revealed a faulty installation adjacent to one of the boreholes which may have allowed a backflow of sewage water into the gravel surrounding the borehole, when the sewage system was congested due to the heavy rainfall on 12 June.