Due to human error, drinking water supplied to a new housing estate in The Netherlands was contaminated with grey water. The cohort of 921 accidentally exposed households (area A) had a higher attack rate for diarrhoea (54.1%) than a non-exposed cohort of 1529 households from an adjacent area (B) (24%) (RR 2.3, 95% CI 1.9-2.7). Household water score showed a dose-response with illness, in both areas A and B. For each 1000 inhabitants, 19.8 cases in area A, 7.0 cases in control area B (RRAB 2.2, 95% CI 1.3-3.8) and 3.3 cases in a more distant control area C (RRAC 4.6, 95% CI 2.7-8.0) were diagnosed with gastroenteritis by their general practitioner. A gastroenteritis outbreak associated with consumption of contaminated drinking water was observed in the exposed area. The use of grey water was banned in 2003, with the exception of rainwater use for flushing toilets. The risk of rainwater use is currently being investigated. In a new housing estate in the central part of The Netherlands, the dual water system serves 30 000 households. On 3 December 2001, two individuals living in one neighbourhood of this new housing estate complained about an unusual odour and taste of the tap water. The water company took samples of the tap water on 4 December, which showed an abnormal count of total coliform bacteria. On 29 November 2001, after maintenance work, the drinking water system had been connected to the grey water system in order to flush and clean it. Due to an oversight, the cross-connection was not removed when the grey water system was again put into operation, and accidental higher pressure in the grey water system caused grey water to circulate into the drinking water pipes. On 6 December, triggered by the announcement of a boiling water advice given by the water company on 5 and 6 December, one general practitioner (GP) from the affected area informed the local public health service of an excessive number of patients with nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea attending his practice over the previous days. On 20 December 2001, a retrospective cohort study was started. The affected area (area A) was compared to a reference area (area B) in terms of incidence of households reporting gastrointestinal complaints. A dose-response relation between water consumption and occurrence of GE was tested, and the distribution of pathogens in stool samples from both areas was studied. In addition, environmental investigations were performed in order to compare pathogens in stools and water. The grey water samples taken on 20 December (21 days after the cross-connection between the two systems was established), was positive for NoV RNA at a concentration of 1600 RNA-containing particles per litre. Southern blot hybridization of the PCR products showed that the NoV RNA belonged to genogroup 1, but could not be genotyped further by sequence analysis.