An outbreak of gastroenteritis lasting for one week in August 1980 affected ~1,500 persons in a community in northern Georgia. Investigation included a telephone survey of the community, a survey of textile plant employees and junior high and high school students and staff, and a neighborhood door-to-door survey. An association between gastrointestinal illness and consumption of drinking water was shown for community residents, students, and school staff. Attack rates (0-68070)determined in 10 neighborhoods increased significantly (P < 0.001) with proximity to a textile plant, the site of one of two known cross-connections between an 
  industrial water system (which contained fecal coliform bacteria) and the community water system. A fourfold rise in titer of antibody to Norwalk virus was found in 12 of 19 serum pairs from patients. Norwalk virus illness associated with drinking water from a large municipal water system has not been documented previously. Norwalk virus may be an important cause of waterborne morbidity in the United States. From August 25 to 27, 1980, 
  1'\\J20 residents of Lindale telephoned the local health department concerning an outbreak of illness in their families. The illness was characterized by nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea and was generally mild and of brief duration. The emergency room in the local hospital reported an increase in the number of patients presenting with gastroenteritis. In addition, school officials noted excessive school absenteeism in the elementary, junior high, and high schools in Lindale, where school had opened on August 25. The state health department was notified, and an investigation was initiated. Data from the Spring Village subdivision indicated an attack rate 
  of 68070 (71% among males and 65% among females). Nausea (92%), vomiting (85%), and diarrhea (84%) were the most common symptoms (table 1). Diarrhea was more common among older individuals (93%) than among those \u226430 years of age (75%) (Xl = 6.23; P <0.02). Otherwise, symptoms were of similar prevalence in all age groups. Investigation of the water systems in the Lindale area revealed that the Cave Spring water supply was not contaminated; chlorination facilities were reliable, and the concentration of residual chlorine and the contact time were adeqate. The water system of the textile plant was found to be supplied by five wellsand two springs in 
  the Lindale area. One of the springs was found to be contaminated (total most probable number of coliform bacteria/100 ml, 240; most probable number of fecal coliform bacteria/100 ml, nine).