Study objective - To examine (i) the extent of illness caused by contamination of a waterworks with waste water due to overflow, and its correlation with precipitation; (ii) the potential secondary spread; (iii) economic losses due to sick leave. Design - A historical follow up study with structured postal questionnaires. Setting - A small community on the outskirts of greater Copenhagen at the end of 1991 and the beginning of 1992. Participants - The main study group comprised all 703 households supplied by the waterworks (response rate: 89% of households). There was a control group of 200 randomly chosen households in neighbouring communities with a different water supply source (response rate: 64% of households). A day care group of all 149 children (response rate: 78%) and 30 teachers (response rate: 83%) who lived in central Copenhagen, but spent the day in four day care centres supplied by the waterworks, and members of their household was also studied. Measurements and main results - Altogether 1455 people (88% of respondents in the main study group) reported having had symptoms of gastroenteritis, particularly diarrhoea (83%) and vomiting (55%/6). In the control group, 10% had had symptoms of gastroenteritis. The onset of episodes with diarrhoea correlated well with precipitation (Spearman's correlation coefficient: 0 75; p=0.0002). The secondary attack rate in household contacts was 12%. No pathogens were found. Affected people stayed home from work for a total of 1658 days. The cost of loss of production because of sick leave amounted to 1 600000 Danish kroner (\u00a3180 000). Conclusions - The outbreak caused extensive illness correlated with precipitation, showed secondary spread, and was associated with major economic losses. Increased awareness among local physicians and waterworks personnel of the possibility of contamination of the water could have led to earlier intervention and reduced the extent of illness. Outbreaks are often caused by several factors, many of a technical nature, which in this case acted together. It is recommended that attention be paid to each factor. This report concerns a major outbreak of gastroenteritis with secondary spread that affected about 1600 people in a small Danish town. The outbreak was caused by a congested municipal sewer and by technical defects in a privately owned waterworks. Several episodes of gastroenteritis occurred, because of intermittent exposure correlated with the amount of precipitation. Pollution of the well was not suspected until Thursday, January 9, 1992, when water was found in the old waterworks building. The well was immediately closed, but no water sample was obtained until the following day. After the weekend, on Monday, January 13, the county public health office was contacted for the first time and was informed that the sample contained 1600 total coliforms per 100 ml, of which 920 were thermotolerant. An order to boil drinking water was issued immediately to each household as well as announced on the local radio. A few days later, filters were changed, and chlorination of filters and pipes was started. After about four weeks the water was again without pathogenic microorganisms. In early February 1992, structured questionnaires were posted to all 703 households supplied by the waterworks. Each household member was asked questions about demographic status, consumption of water, symptoms of gastroenteritis, physician contacts, and sick leave during the seven week period of 16 December 1991 to 2 February 1992. Local physicians believed that some people had had symptoms more than once during the observation period; hence for each occurrence of diarrhea, vomiting, and fever, we asked, respectively, for the date of the start and length of each episode. When calculating incidence and prevalence rates, people who had been out of the area for one or more nights were substracted from the total. The respondents in the main study group had a median age of 39 years (interquartile range: 19-52 years) with a male:female ratio of 1-004. Around 17% of those who fell ill called a physician, and 8% were examined by one. Ten individuals (less than 1%) were admitted to a hospital. Two underwent an appendectomy; one of these had an inflamed appendix. No one died.