Cryptosporidium sp. isolates from a waterborne outbreak of diarrhea in France were analyzed by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and sequencing of the Cpgp40/15 locus. Ninety-one percent of the isolates were Cryptosporidium hominis type Ib. The results of this study and those of studies of other outbreaks suggest that the type Ib allele is the predominant allele associated with waterborne cryptosporidiosis. We previously reported on a waterborne outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in Dracy le Fort in eastern France (3). Briefly, on 20 September 2001, clustered cases of gastroenteritis occurred in the county of Dracy le Fort. Complaints about the quality of the public water supply had been reported during the previous week. Public health authorities declared an outbreak; and a series of three investigations followed: (i) analysis of fecal samples from symptomatic patients, (ii) analysis of water samples collected from the public water supply, and (iii) epidemiologic investigations based on telephone surveys of physicians from the cities served by the same public water system and all households in the city of Dracy le Fort (3). Analysis of fecal samples showed that the outbreak was polymicrobial. Altogether, 61.2% of the samples were positive for Cryptosporidium DNA by 
PCR for the Hsp70 and the 18S rRNA genes. Genotyping of the isolates by direct sequencing of the PCR products showed that all isolates were genotype 1 (3). Water samples collected on 20 and 21 September confirmed a bacterial contamination of the public network. Of 56 water samples tested, 15 were positive for Cryptosporidium sp. oocysts, with the maximum oocyst concentration reaching 0.19/liter on 1 October. Samples collected after 3 October were negative for Cryptosporidium spp. The telephone survey of physicians showed that the outbreak was almost exclusively limited to Dracy le Fort. A retrospective telephone survey reached 387 households; 291 were 
included in the analysis. It showed that the attack rate increased in children aged 0 to 9 years (P \u0002 0.05) and with the amount of water consumed before 20 September (P < 0.001) (Table 1). The present study was conducted to determine the subgenotypes of isolates from the Dracy le Fort outbreak by PCR-RFLP and sequencing of the Cpgp40/15 locus. Samples from 25 symptomatic patients that tested positive for Cryptosporidium spp. were analyzed to determine which allelic subgroups were associated with the outbreak.