Following an episode of water contamination with sewage in a rural Irish town, a community-wide survey of gastrointestinal-associated illness and health service utilization was conducted. Random sampling of households yielded residents who were surveyed using a self-administered questionnaire. Of 560 respondents from 167 (84%) households, equal proportions lived in areas known to have been exposed and unexposed to the contaminated water, although 65% of subjects reported using contaminated water. Sixty-one percent of subjects met the case definition. The most common symptoms among cases were abdominal cramps (80%), diarhoea (75%), appetite loss (69%), nausea (68%) and tiredness (66%). Mean duration of illness was 7-4 days. Only 22 % of cases attended their general practitioner. Drinking unboiled water from the exposed area was strongly associated with being a case. A substantial degree of community illness associated with exposure to contaminated water was observed. The episode ranks as one of the largest reported water-borne outbreaks causing gastrointestinal illness in recent times. In early October 1991 an episode of sewage contamination occurred which affected the water supply to approximately half the population of a rural town of 11141 people in Ireland [2]. The most recent sampling had been on 23 September 1991. On 7 October a consumer complained of a foul smell from a domestic water supply. Water samples were taken for bacteriological analysis. No further complaints were received on that day. On 8 October, when further complaints were received, inspection of the well borehole (supply B) revealed visible signs of sewage contamination. Supply B was closed, not used again and substituted with supply A. Water sampling revealed a total coliform count of 11 x 107 per ml and an E. coli count of 1-5 x 105 per ml. The pipe system was flushed out and hyperchlorinated. From 9 October an alternative drinking water supply was provided for the town by means of tankers. Water from supply A continued to be monitored on a daily basis from an average of 25 sampling points in the town. On 25 October, after repeated satisfactory results the local authority was advised that the water was again fit for human consumption. Daily sampling for a further month revealed satisfactory results. The well (supply B) had become contaminated with untreated human sewage which leaked from an adjacent sewage conduit. It is not known precisely when the contamination commenced but it was reported after the event came to notice that a consumer had noted a foul smell from the water on 5 October. Communication with the public and medical practitioners suggested widespread symptoms of illness among residents. The object of this study was to establish the effects of the episode on the health of residents of the town. A random sample of 200 households in the entire town was selected from the electoral register. Each member of each selected household was included in the sample. A self-administered questionnaire was delivered to residents, accompanied by a detailed list of areas supplied by the contaminated water so that respondents could determine their own exposure to the water. Two hundred and fifty-two (74-1 %) cases were under 40 years of age. Of 280 cases who provided adequate information on occupation, 209 (74.6 %) were from social class categories 1-3 [5]. In terms of age, sex and social class, cases did not differ from non-cases. The attack rate was 77.3 % for subjects living in the exposed area and 75.7 % for those who reported using the contaminated water (Table 1). Two cases were admitted to hospital and a further 2 were treated at a hospital accident and emergency department. While the study did not directly address the aspect of laboratory tests on clinical specimens, members of the public who were ill were encouraged to provide faecal samples for analysis. Considering the extent of symptoms in the community, relatively few samples were provided for analysis. The majority of isolates were of non-pathogenic Escherichia coli and other non-pathogenic organisms (e.g. Providencia alcalifaciens). There were several isolates of different strains of enterotoxigenic E. coli and of Giardia lamblia. No isolates of salmonella, shigella, campylobacter, cryptosporidium or rotavirus were demonstrated.