In late May, 2007, a drinking water crisis took place in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China, following a massive bloom of the toxin producing cyanobacteria Microcystis spp. in Lake Taihu, China\u2019s third largest freshwater lake. Taihu was the city\u2019s sole water supply, leaving approximately two million people without drinking water for at least a week. This cyanobacterial bloom event began two months earlier than previously documented for Microcystis blooms in Taihu. This was attributed to an unusually warm spring. The prevailing wind direction during this period caused the bloom to accumulate at the shoreline near the intake of the water plant. Water was diverted from the nearby Yangtze River in an effort to flush the lake of the bloom. However, this management action was counterproductive, because it produced a current which transported the bloom into the intake, exacerbating the drinking water contamination problem. The severity of this microcystin toxin containing bloom and the ensuing drinking water crisis were attributable to excessive nutrient enrichment; however, a multi-annual warming trend extended the bloom period and amplified its severity, and this was made worse by unanticipated negative impacts of water management. Long-term management must therefore consider both the human and climatic factors controlling these blooms and their impacts on water supply in this and other large lakes threatened by accelerating eutrophication. On the morning of May 29, 2007, local residents in Wuxi, a city with four million inhabitants located on the shore of Taihu, awoke from a warm, humid night to find an intolerable, offensive odor coming from their water taps. Normally, residents are familiar with city water supplies having a slight earthy and musty odor combined with the smell of chlorine, because most of the treated drinking water comes from Lake Taihu. However, the intensity of the odor in the water supply at this time was beyond anything experienced previously. The contaminated drinking water came from the Gonghu Water Works, located at Gonghu Bay, Lake Taihu, approximately 20 km from Wuxi (Fig. 1). This utility treats one million cubic meters of water per day, which accounts for 80% of Wuxi's drinking supply. Our investigation by boat around the water intake found a decomposed cyanobacterial scum, i.e. foam-covered black agglomerates, flowing slowly towards the intake of the water works. These agglomerates had a strong offensive odor and were composed of cyanotoxin producing, bloom-forming cyanobacterial genus Microcystis. Because of the odor and concern about cyanotoxins, including microcystins, associated with these blooms, the local residents consumed bottled water instead of city water. This situation continued until June 5, 2007 when the mayor of Wuxi City went on television and drank boiled city water in an effort to demonstrate that the water was safe to drink. This bloom event proved to be a major crisis, directly affecting approximately 2 million people who regularly use the city\u2019s water. Six water samples containing agglomerates were collected around the intake by boat on the afternoon of June 1, 2007. Concentrations of chemical oxygen demand (CODMn), total nitrogen (TN), total phosphorus (TP) and chlorophyll a (Chl-a) of these samples ranged from 7.7 to 53.6 mgL-1, 4.7 to 23.4 mgL-1, 0.23 to 1.05 mgL-1 and 78.3 to 978.5\u00b5gL-1, respectively. These values were up to 10 times the values normally observed in Taihu (Zhu 2008). On June 3, 2007, spatial distributions of CODMn, TN and TP concentration in Gonghu Bay were examined. Peak concentrations of CODMn, TN and TP were 13.1 mg L-1, 10.6 mg L-1 and 0.54 mg L-1 respectively, about 3-5 times the average concentrations for that time of the year in Taihu (Zhu 2008). Spatial distribution analyses showed that the highest CODMn, TN and TP concentrations were to the northeast of the water intake. This suggested that the bloom originated from the northeast part of Gonghu Bay. Chemical analysis of agglomerates sampled on June 4, 2007 showed that peak concentrations of the odor producing compounds dimethyl trisulfide and alkyl sulfide were 11 and 399 ng L-1 respectively (Yang and others 2008). This concentration was more than enough to generate the strong odor that was observed (Yang and others 2008). The additional cyanobacterial odor generating metabolites, 2-methyl-iso-borneol and geosmin, were also detected in the agglomerates (Yang and others 2008). The study by Yang and others (2008) suggests that the drinking water contamination by these metabolites was caused by the toxin-producing cyanobacterial bloom in this eutrophic lake.