Between January 12 and February 7, 1987, an outbreak of gastroenteritis affected an estimated 13,000 people in a county of 64,900 residents in western Georgia. Cryptosporidium oocysts were identified in the stools of 58 of 147 patients with gastroenteritis (39 percent) tested during the outbreak. Studies for bacterial, viral, and other parasitic pathogens failed to implicate any other agent. In a random telephone survey, 299 of 489 household members exposed to the public water supply (61 percent) reported gastrointestinal illness, as compared with 64 of 322 (20 percent) who were not exposed (relative risk, 3.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval, 2.4 to 3.9). The prevalence of lgG to cryptosporidium was significantly higher among exposed respondents to the survey who had become ill than among nonresident controls. Cryptosporidium oocysts were identified in samples of treated public water with use of a monoclonal-antibody test. Although the sand-filtered and chlorinated water system met all regulatory-agency quality standards, sub-optimal flocculation and filtration probably allowed the parasite to pass into the drinking-water supply. Low-level cryptosporidium infection in cattle in the watershed and a sewage overflow were considered as possible contributors to the contamination of the surface-water supply. We conclude that current standards for the treatment of public water supplies may not prevent the contamination of drinking water by cryptosporidium, with consequent outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis. In mid-January 1987 a college physician informed health authorities of a dramatic increase in gastroenteritis among students at West Georgia College in Carrollton, Georgia. Carrollton is the principal city in Carroll County (population, 64,900), located in western Georgia. An initial investigation by state and federal epidemiologists indicated that the outbreak involved the entire community, The laboratory director at Carrollton's hospital reported that four stool specimens obtained from patients with acute gastroenteritis were positive for cryptosporidium. The first positive report had been on January 12. An initial case\u2014control study of patients presenting with gastroenteritis to the hospital emergency room and a comparison of gastroenteritis rates at nursing homes connected to the public water system with rates at homes independent of the system implicated the water supply as a possible source of the outbreak. An advisory to boil water was issued on January 30. During the outbreak, federal and local engineers evaluated the 16 water-treatment plant in accordance with published procedures. Samples of raw and treated water from various points in the water system were examined for cryptosporidium and giardia by passing  379 to 3785 liters (100 to 1000 gal) of water through a I-pm polypropylene filter.