On 6 June 2019, the Norwegian Institute of Public Health was notified of more than 50 cases of gastroenteritis in Ask\u00f8y. A reservoir in a water supply system was suspected as the source of the outbreak because of the acute onset and geographical distribution of cases. We investigated the outbreak to confirm the source, extent of the outbreak and effect of control measures. A case was defined as a person in a household served by Water Supply System A (WSSA) who had gastroenteritis for more than 24 h between 1 and 19 June 2019. We conducted pilot interviews, a telephone survey and an SMS-based cohort study of residents served by WSS-A. System information of WSS-A was collected. Whole genome sequencing on human and environmental isolates was performed. Among 6,108 individuals, 1,573 fulfilled the case definition. Residents served by the reservoir had a 4.6\u00d7 higher risk of illness than others. Campylobacter jejuni isolated from cases (n = 24) and water samples (n = 4) had identical core genome MLST profiles. Contamination through cracks in the reservoir most probably occurred during heavy rainfall. Water supply systems are susceptible to contamination, particularly to certain weather conditions. This highlights the importance of water safety planning and risk-based surveillance to mitigate risks. On the evening of 6 June 2019, the Medical Officer in Ask\u00f8y reported an outbreak of gastroenteritis to the NIPH. In a 24 h period, 10 people had been hospitalised with fever, abdominal pain and diarrhoea, and ca 30 individuals had sought medical attention from out-of-hours primary healthcare services (OPHS). At least one person had tested positive for Campylobacter. Staff of the OPHS noted that many patients presenting with gastroenteritis had home addresses near each other, which led to a suspicion that drinking water could be the source of the outbreak. A joint investigation was carried out by the municipal services, the Norwegian Food Safety Authority and the Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH), with the aim to confirm the source, extent of the outbreak and effect of control measures. We sent all households served by WSS-A an SMS 
with a link to our questionnaire on 13 June 2019 and posted the link on the municipality\u2019s website. We requested that one person should respond on behalf of all household members. We asked about household illness, clinical presentation, tap water consumption and whether the household had received and followed the boil water advisory (BWA). The survey was closed on 20 June. The SMS with the questionnaire was sent to 4,409 persons with mobile phone numbers registered to residences in the supply area of WSS-A. Data from 6,192 individuals were reported through the online questionnaire, of whom 1,913 reported illness. We excluded data for 79 household 
members who reported onset of illness before 1 June and for five who reported onset of illness after 19 June. After this exclusion, data were available from 2,526 persons who responded on behalf of 6,108 household members, which yields a coverage of 51% (6,108/11,995) of the residents supplied by WSSA. Mean age of the included household members was 34 years (range: 0 to 93 years) and 50% were female. In addition to issuing a BWA and closure of Reservoir X (Figure 1), emergency water supply distribution started on 8 June from water tanks located in public areas such as school and parking lots, and infection control measures in public services were strengthened, as a measure to address the concern in the population.