Between August and October 2003, 15 cases of Legionnaires\u2019 disease were detected in the 9th district of Rome. To identify possible sources of Legionella exposure, a matched case-control study was conducted and environmental samples were collected. Hospital discharge records were also retrospectively analysed for the period July-November 2003, and results were compared with the same period during the previous 3 years. The case-control study revealed a significantly increased risk of disease among those frequenting a specific department store in the district (OR 9.8, 95% CI 2.1-46.0), and Legionella pneumophila was isolated from the store\u2019s cooling tower. Genotypic and phenotypic analysis of human and environmental isolates demonstrated that the cluster was caused by a single strain of L. pneumophila serogroup 1, and that the cooling tower of the store was the source of infection. The increased number of hospital admissions for microbiologically undiagnosed pneumonia during the study period may indicate that some legionellosis cases were not identified. In addition, to estimate the true magnitude of the outbreak, a retrospective analysis of hospital discharge records for pneumonia was carried out for persons discharged between 14 July and 2 November 2003 from the main district hospital, and results were compared with the same period for the previous 3 years. A confirmed case of LD was defined as radiologically confirmed pneumonia with laboratory evidence of acute infection with Legionella including: (a) isolation of any species of Legionella from respiratory secretions, lung tissue, or blood; (b) a fourfold or higher rise in specific serum antibody titre against L. pneumophila serogroup 1 by immunofluorescence or microagglutination in paired acute- and convalescent-phase serum specimens; or (c) detection of L. pneumophila antigen in urine, in an individual residing in or having visited the 9th district of the city of Rome in the 10 days before the onset of the disease. Possible sources of Legionella were inspected, and water and biofilm samples were collected from several sites (i.e. stores, patients\u2019 homes, and decorative fountains located in a public park). A total of 15 confirmed cases of LD occurring between 8 August and 16 October (Fig. 1) were identified among residents in the 9th district, 13 of whom had been reported by the district hospital and two by other hospitals in Rome. Their mean age was 70 years, ranging from 49 to 89 years; 10 were men, yielding a male:female ratio of 2:1. All cases were hospitalized, and one patient died. Urinary antigen detection performed during hospital admission was positive for all cases. L. pneumophila serogroup 1 subgroup Philadelphia was isolated from the storage tank and water system of this cooling tower at a concentration of 1.4*10^6 and 1.3*10^6 c.f.u./l respectively. The same L. pneumophila mAb subgroup was found at high concentration in the air samples collected on the street grid and in the biofilm samples collected from the storage tank. Following environmental investigation results, emergency control measures were implemented. A first disinfection was carried out by an experienced company using a mixture of 500 ppm of hydrogen peroxide and silver (shock treatment) at the beginning of October.