This paper explores the fate and transport of microbial contamination in a cold climate and coarse aquifers. A confirmed norovirus outbreak in a small rural water supply in the late summer of 2004, which is estimated to have infected over 100 people, is used as a case study. A septic system, 80 m upstream of the water intake, is considered to have contaminated drinking water. Water samples tested were negative for coliform and strongly positive for norovirus. Modelling predicts that a 4.8-log10 removal was possible in the 8 m thick vadose zone, while only a 0.7-log10 and 2.7-log10 removal in the aquifer for viruses and Escherichia coli, respectively. The model results support that the 80 m setback distance was inadequate and roughly 900 m aquifer transport distance was needed to achieve 9-log10 viral removal. Sensitivity analysis showed that the most influential parameters on model transport removal rate are grain size diameter and groundwater velocity, temperature and acidity. The results demonstrate a need for systematic evaluation of septic systems in rural areas in lesser studied coarse strata at low temperatures, thereby strengthening data used for regulatory requirements for more confident determination on safe setback distances. In the beginning of August 2004, an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness was reported by a group of tourists travelling in an organized bus tour around Iceland. The group had dined at a hotel on the south shore of Lake M\u00fdvatn in the evening of July 31 (Figure 2). The first case of illness was reported in the evening of August 1, when the group was in the nearby town of Akureyri in Northern Iceland. The group consisted of 26 individuals of whom 21 became ill. In the period of July 31 to August 3, individuals from three other tourist groups dining at the same hotel were reported ill (Atladottir 2006). Simultaneously, residents in nearby summer houses were reported ill. An advisory to boil drinking water was issued on August 4 after which no case of illness was reported. It is estimated that at least 100 people became infected that summer from that same water supply. The following spring UV treatment was installed and drainage from the septic tank was moved away from the direction of the groundwater stream (Brynjolfsson 2008).