Noroviruses (NoVs) cause gastroenteritis in all age groups. To investigate an acute gastroenteritis outbreak in Shenzhen, South China, we analyzed the presence of NoVs in fecal specimens and drinking water samples. Viral RNAs were extracted from fecal suspensions and water concentrates made by membrane adsorption-elution, and NoV was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Among the 43 diseased workers at the two factories and one construction site, NoVs were detected in 19 out of 28 stool specimens (68%) and 3 out of 16 water samples (19%). Importantly, the six NoV strains identified from the water and the stool samples share over 99% sequence identity and all belong to GII 4 viruses. Epidemiological survey also identified a water pipe breakage possibly causing the water contamination, and confirmed that the contaminated drinking water largely contributed to the NoV gastroenteritis outbreak. To our knowledge, this is the first time that a viral concentration and detection method for waterborne NoV is applied to a gastroenteritis outbreak in China. In December 2007, public health authorities were informed of a possible outbreak of gastroenteritis among workers at two factories and a construction site in a close proximity in Shenzhen, a southern city of China. On 14 December 2007, symptoms of gastroenteritis including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal cramps were first reported by two workers in factory B who were later found positive for NoV in stool samples. In the following 3 days, 43 out of 369 workers among the two factories (A and B) and the construction site developed gastroenteritis. A survey was then conducted with questionnaires to gather information on routes of possible exposure to the virus. The patients and some symptom-free coworkers were asked about the food and water they took in the past few days, and their attendance at the workplace. In addition, information on the source of drinking water was also obtained from the canteen managers of these three workplaces. It was also reported that the two factories and the construction site shared the same water supply system, and the construction site was at the terminal of the water supply system where a breakage of water pipes occurred a few days before the gastroenteritis outbreak. In addition, 39 coworkers at the construction site who always drunk purified bottled water were not sick.