An explosive outbreak of gastrointestinal illness clinically compatible with Infection by an agent seroiogicaliy related to Norwaik virus agent occurred in an elementary school in May 1978. Seroconversion by radioimmunoassay to the Norwaik antigen was noted In two of three III persons, but no viral particles were Identified in stool. Illness developed in 72% of students and teachers at the school, and 32% of household contacts of these III persons. Of household contacts of persons exposed at school but not clinically ill, 11% developed illness. This value, however, was not statistically different from the level of illness observed concurrently In household contacts of students at an unaffected school nearby. Epldemlologic Investigation Implicated water as the mode of transmission. Average consumption of one or more glasses per day was strongly associated with illness (p < 0.00000001). Among soccer team members with limited school contact, water consumption at the school was associated with a 14-fold greater risk of illness (p < 0.000001). Drinking water was most likely contaminated by back-slphonage through a cross-connection between the school's well and septic tank. This contamination occurred approximately 24 to 36 hours before the outbreak developed. School A is located in a heavily wooded rural area approximately 15 km from the city of Tacoma in Pierce County, Washington. The school has an enrollment of approximately 600 children in grades kindergarten through six and is part of a district with five elementary schools (total enrollment 2351), one middle school (enrollment 719), and one high school (enrollment 1368). The school building is a single story structure approximately 25 years old. Water is supplied by a well 51.4 meters deep, yielding 257 liters per minute with a submersible pump. The school is not connected to public sewer, and has its own septic tank and drain field. Other than milk and ice cream, no food is available at the school, and lunches are brought from home. In the weeks preceding the outbreak, several schools in the Tacoma area had noted absenteeism due to gastrointestinal illness. None of the schools in the district of School A, however, had noted similar illness immediately prior to the outbreak. At the close of school on May 3, 15 out of 608 children were absent. On the morning of May 4, 1978, approximately 170 children did not appear for classes at School A, and 20 to 30 more were sent home during the day because of gastrointestinal illness. On the afternoon of May 4, the Epidemiology Section, Washington State Health Services Division, was notified and investigation was begun. Outbreak investigation. Preliminary investigation revealed an illness characterized by vomiting, diarrhea and low grade fever, clinically compatible with nonbacterial gastroenteritis. The suddenness of the outbreak and anecdotal information from school maintenance personnel immediately raised the possibility of water contamination. School officials voluntarily closed the school on the morning of May 5, pending evaluation of the water supply. To further assess the nature and etiology of illness, a questionnaire was distributed to all members of all households served by the school. To determine the presence or absence of human rotavirus, supernatant from a 10 per cent suspension of the fecal specimens was examined by electron microscopy using the pseudoreplica technique as described by Martin et al. (8) In addition, stools from four persons still having symptoms two weeks later were examined for pathogenic intestinal parasites. Water samples from 10 sites in the school building were analyzed for fecal coliforms. Survey questionnaires were returned by 1393 persons with direct or indirect exposure to School A, and 189 with direct or indirect exposure to School B. Response was higher from households related to School A than from those related to School B. Response was also higher in households with ill persons than from those without. None were hospitalized. No bacterial or parasitic pathogens were identified in stools examined. Immune electron microscopy on the three stools submitted did not reveal human rotavirus or particles consistent with the morphology of the Norwalk agent. Upon learning of illness in students, school maintenance personnel collected five water samples from various points in the building. Because the system had no chlorination mechanism, they then added hypochlorite solution directly into the well. All five water samples showed fecal coliforms in excess of 16 per 100 ml. While the school was closed, an air gap and a vacuum breaker were installed onto the air intake line to the well. In addition, the water system was copiously flushed. Five water samples collected on May 8 from various points showed no bacteria and no evidence of chlorine. The school was allowed to reopen on May 10 provided that intermittent chlorination maintained a level of 0.6 parts per million. When school reopened, absenteeism was back to a normal level.