Failures in the drinking water distribution system cause gastrointestinal outbreaks with multiple pathogens. A water distribution pipe breakage caused a community-wide waterborne outbreak in Vuorela, Finland, July 2012. We investigated this outbreak with advanced epidemiological and microbiological methods. A total of 473/2931 inhabitants (16%) responded to a web-based questionnaire. Water and patient samples were subjected to analysis of multiple microbial targets, molecular typing and microbial community analysis. Spatial analysis on the water distribution network was done and we applied a spatial logistic regression model. The course of the illness was mild. Drinking untreated tap water from the defined outbreak area was significantly associated with illness (RR 5.6, 95% CI 1.9-16.4) increasing in a dose response manner. The closer a person lived to the water distribution breakage point, the higher the risk of becoming ill. Sapovirus, enterovirus, single Campylobacter jejuni and EHEC O157:H7 findings as well as virulence genes for EPEC, EAEC and EHEC pathogroups were detected by molecular or culture methods from the faecal samples of the patients. EPEC, EAEC and EHEC virulence genes and faecal indicator bacteria were also detected in water samples. Microbial community sequencing of contaminated tap water revealed abundance of Arcobacter species. The polyphasic approach improved the understanding of the source of the infections, and aided to define the extent and magnitude of this outbreak. A case was defined as a person staying or living in the Vuorela area during July 2012 with diarrhoea or two of the following symptoms: nausea, vomiting, stomach ache or fever. We excluded persons who were absent from the outbreak area during the whole study period and those who travelled abroad during July 2012. Based on the geographical coordinates we also determined the number of households or blocks of houses with unique water delivery points in the affected area. The main water pipe was accidentally broken on 4th July, 2012 during road construction work in Vuorela, a community of 3000 inhabitants within the municipality of Siilinjarvi in Eastern Finland. The pipe breakage caused the contents of the upper drinking water storage reservoir to leak into the road construction pit. The pipe breakage was fixed within 14 hours, flushed and quality of the water was shown to fulfill the hygienic quality criteria. On the 16th July, the local environmental health authorities were informed by the health care centre of an excess number of patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. Given the recent pipe break in the area, a waterborne outbreak was suspected. The local outbreak control team of health and environmental authorities and waterworks personnel was activated, national outbreak awareness team was informed and consulted. On the following day, the results from tap water samples revealed faecal contamination of the water further confirming the waterborne nature of the outbreak. An immediate boil water notice was issued on 17th July and collection of patient and drinking water samples was initiated. The water distribution pipeline was subsequently flushed, the water storage reservoir was cleaned and the whole distribution system was disinfected with chlorine. The boil water notice was cancelled when the outbreak was declared over on 3rd August 2012. The age, sex and living coordinates for the population were obtained from the National Population Register. A case was defined as a person staying or living in the Vuorela area during July 2012 with diarrhoea or two of the following symptoms: nausea, vomiting, stomach ache or fever. We excluded persons who were absent from the outbreak area during the whole study period and those who travelled abroad during July 2012. The crude attack rate obtained from the questionnaire study (225/431, 52%) is within the same range to what has been observed in similar outbreaks, namely between 31-88% [2-4]. The true number of ill persons is difficult to estimate, but the educated evaluation of the local general practitioner (800 cases) is a fair estimate.