 In June 2006, an outbreak alert regarding cases of acute gastroenteritis in a region in North Eastern Greece (population 100,882 inhabitants), triggered investigations to guide control measures. The outbreak started the first days of June, and peaked in July. A descriptive epidemiological study, a virological characterization of the viral agent identified from cases as well as a phylogenetic analysis was performed.\nFrom June 5 to September 3, 2006 (weeks 23-44), 1,640 cases of gastroenteritis (45.2% male and 54.8% female, aged 3 months to 89 years) were reported. The overall attack rate for the period was 16.3 cases/1,000 inhabitants. About 57% of cases observed were under the age of 15 years. Cnalysis of faecal samples identified Norovirus GII strains. Fifteen different Norovirus GII strains were recorded, presenting a homology of 94.8% (86-97%) to GII strains obtained from GenBank. \nThe long duration of the outbreak suggests an important role of person-to-person transmission, while the emergence of the outbreak was possibly due to contaminated potable water, although no viruses were detected in any tested water samples. This outbreak underscores the need for a national surveillance system for acute non-bacterial gastroenteritis outbreaks. All gastroenteritis cases referred to the General Hospital of Xanthi during the period May 1, 2006 to November 5, 2006 (weeks 18-44) were ascertained using medical records from the Hospital. \nIn addition, after cooperation with Health Office of the prefecture, a structured questionnaire was developed and used to gather clinical and sociodemographic information from in- and out-patients referred to the General Hospital of Xanthi the period between June 5 and September 3, 2006 (weeks 23-35). \nThe questionnaire included information on gender, age, residence, symptoms, date of onset of symptoms, laboratory tests performed. Questionnaires were completed by health officers of the prefecture of Xanthi. An outbreak case was defined as any resident of Xanthi prefecture, who visited the hospital and having two or more episodes of vomiting and/or diarrhea, with/without abdominal pains and with/without laboratory confirmation during the period of June 5 and September 3. \nIn order to establish retrospective data for the epidemiological investigation, the gastroenteritis cases admitted to the paediatric and the Internal Medicine Unit from May till August of 2005 were also recorded.\")\n\n