We conducted an outbreak investigation from June 3 to 15th in a rural village in northern Kazakhstan, after surveillance showed an increase in gastroenteritis. Cases were residents who presented for medical treatment for diarrhea, fever (>37.5 \u02daC), vomiting, or weakness from May 14 to June 15, 2021. Controls were residents matched by age \u00b12 years at a ratio of two controls for every case. Cases and controls were interviewed using structured questionnaires. We abstracted clinical data from medical records. We mapped cases and assessed risk for disease using conditional multivariable logistic regression. We identified 154 cases of acute gastroenteritis (attack rate of ~26 per 1,000 inhabitants). Symptoms were diarrhea, fever, vomiting, weakness, and decreased appetite. Among cases that participated (n = 107), 74% reported having drank unboiled tap water vs 18% of controls (n = 219). This was the only risk factor associated with disease (adjusted odds ratio: 18; 95% CI 9-35). Drinking water from a dispenser or carbonated drinks was protective. The city has two water supply networks; cases were clustered (107 cases in 79 households) in one. The investigation found that monitoring of quality and safety of water according to national regulations had not been conducted since 2018. No fatalities occurred, and no associated cases were reported after our investigation. Results suggest that untreated tap water was the probable source of the outbreak. The water supply had been cleaned and disinfected twice by the facility 2 days before our investigation began. Recommendations were made for regular monitoring of water supply facilities with rapid public notification when issues are detected to reduce likelihood of future drinking water associated outbreaks. From May 27 to June 1, 2021, district epidemiologists at the Kyzylzhar District Department of Sanitary and Epidemiological Control noted an uptick in the number of cases of unspecified gastroenteritis, registered in the village of 12,000 inhabitants in North Kazakhstan region, Kazakhstan. A team from the Scientific and Practical Center for Sanitary and Epidemiological Expertise and Monitoring and from the Field Epidemiology Training Program in Central Asia Region were deployed to the village to conduct an outbreak investigation to describe epidemiological and clinical characteristics, determine associated factors, and identify the source to control the outbreak. The team conducted an outbreak investigation using a case-control study from June 3 to 15, 2021. Cases were defined as acutely ill residents of a rural village who had been hospitalized or in outpatient treatment at any healthcare facility in the village from May 14 to June 15, 2021, with signs and symptoms of diarrhea, fever (at least 37.5C), vomiting, and weakness. Controls were residents of the village without these symptoms. Simple random sampling from the resident database, which includes demographic information on all people who resides in the village, available from the Kyzylzhar District Department of Sanitary and Epidemiological Control was used to select controls matched by age \u00b12 years at a ratio of 2 controls for every case. Fresh stool specimens were collected from 12 consenting cases, and water samples were collected from 2 consenting households. Virological and molecular genetic (PCR) analysis was carried out by the Scientific and Practical Center for Sanitary and Epidemiological Expertise and Monitoring Laboratory in Almaty. From 27 May to 13 June 2021, 154 persons suspected of gastroenteritis with clinical symptoms were identified as cases (Fig 1). This corresponds to an attack rate of 13 per 1,000 for the village and 26 per 1,000 in the old section of the village. Symptom onset peaked on May 27, 2021, prior to which there was the usual background incidence of enteric infections in the village and district. Cases occurred across age groups with no distinguishable age pattern over time. Most cases were children; 44% were <6 years old (n = 68/154) and 6% were <1 year old. The attack rate was 27 per 1,000 for the entire village and 53 per 1,000 for the old section of the village. District epidemiologists had tested water samples taken from 15 patient homes 4 days after the first case was reported. Their results found high levels of bacterial colony-forming units (CFUs) in water exceeding 5000 CFU per 100 mL. On 1 June 2021, the central water supply company cleaned and disinfected the water supply network in the village. They repeated cleaning and disinfection the following day, after testing showed noncompliance with the residual chlorine content in the water. On 3 June, the residual chlorine content was within normal The case-control study did not find any other common exposures. Disease was not associated with other water-related risks (such as recent visiting and bathing in a water park, fountains, an open pond) because the reports of these risks were equally rare among cases and controls. Similarly, there was no evidence linking cases to common events and activities, such as attending mass gatherings or dining. The mixed etiology of laboratory tests supports the hypothesis of drinking water contamination. The presence of multiple pathogens in the stool samples tested indicates that tap water could have been contaminated with feces from wastewater rather than from a single person.