An operating error in a sewage treatment plant led to severe drinking water contamination in a well-defined district of a suburban municipality of Zurich, Switzerland. Despite the alert issued to the local population on the same day advising people not to consume the contaminated water, cases of acute gastroenteric diseases were subsequently observed. Considerable faecal contamination was detected the day after the incident in water samples taken up to 500 m from the sewage plant. In a retrospective epidemiological study involving 240 persons living in the affected area, 126 cases of acute gastrointestinal illness were documented. The epidemic curve revealed a peak incidence two days after the event. Stool samples from 11 of 20 patients were positive for noroviruses or Campylobacter jejuni. Although these microorganisms were not detected in the contaminated water, the subsequently conducted case-control study among the surveyed population showed that consumption of contaminated drinking water was associated with gastrointestinal illness (odds ratio 29.1; 95% confidence interval: 9.8-86.4; p \u00bc 0.001). The study also revealed the very probable time period of infection. We present the dimension and chronology of this outbreak and discuss the reasons for its localised and temporary spread. In the late afternoon of 6 February 2008, an external plumber directly connected the washwater pipe with the drinking water pipe at the sewage plant of a suburban municipality of Zurich, and the highly pressurised washwater flooded the drinking water system. This operating error was facilitated by the fact that the pipes of these two systems were indistinguishable because the drinking water system was not labelled. Washwater (cleaned waste water) is commonly used in sewage plants to flush the cells. The alerted sewage plant manager quickly detected the operating error, restored the system and informed the emergency organisation of the canton of Zurich. The population of the municipality was alerted the same day in the late evening, and a boil-water notice was issued. Flushing of the main drinking water pipes by opening hydrants at the sewage plant and the surrounding area was initiated and continued for two days. Water samples from the possibly affected area were repeatedly collected to identify the extent of microbiological contamination as well as to assess the effect of flushing. As microbiological investigations of drinking water samples from 8 February revealed no significant faecal contamination, the restrictions were lifted on 9 February. Despite the measures taken, several cases of acute gastroenteric diseases were reported by a local newspaper on 12 February. From the 17 water samples taken on 7 February, only one displayed high faecal contamination with around 300 E. coli/100 mL water. This sample originated from a drinking water hydrant situated within a radius of 500 m from the sewage plant. The two washwater samples taken three weeks after the incident at the sewage plant were positive for NoV genogroup I. One sample also contained NoV (genogroup II). No Campylobacter were detected. The median age of this population was 39 years (range 1\u201381 years), and 66% were women. Thereof, 126 (53%) persons reported an onset of gastrointestinal illness from 6 February onwards. Symptoms included diarrhoea (78%), nausea (58%), vomiting (56%) as well as abdominal pain (55%). NoV were detected in 9 of the 15 stool samples examined for microorganisms, and genogroup I was identified in all cases. Additionally, five of them also contained NoV belonging to genogroup II (Figure 2). Two of these samples were also positive for Campylobacter spp., and a positive signal for enterotoxigenic E. coli was detected by PCR in one of them. A further sample was positive by PCR for shigatoxin-producing E. coli. Detection of Campylobacter spp. was reported by physicians in two of five stool samples.