Background: An epidemic of acute gastroenteritis occurred in Rio Branco City, Acre State, in Brazil's Amazon region in 2005. An investigation was conducted to confirm the etiology and identify possible risk factors for death. Methods: Rio Branco municipality surveillance data for the period May to October 2005 were reviewed. In a case-control study, children who died following acute gastroenteritis were compared to age-matched controls with acute gastroenteritis who survived. Rotavirus A (RV-A) was investigated in 799 stool samples and genotyped by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results: The cumulative incidence of diarrhea in children aged <5 years was 21%. A fatal outcome was significantly associated with uncovered household water storage containers. RV-A was identified in 88% of samples and G9 was the prevalent genotype (71%). Conclusions: Oral rehydration solution and boiling or chlorinating drinking water likely limited mortality. This epidemic was caused by RV-A genotype G9. After the outbreak, a rotavirus vaccine was introduced into the official childhood immunization schedule in Brazil. During August 2005 in the State of Acre, in Brazil's Western Amazon region (see Figure 1), an increased number of ADD cases were reported, mainly among young children living in the capital city of Rio Branco. A total of 816 persons with acute gastroenteritis were reported from August 14 to August 19, an increase of approximately 70% compared to the same period in the previous year (data not shown). Rotavirus was identified in the stool samples of two patients early in the outbreak. Data on children with acute gastroenteritis, reported by clinicians from May 1 to September 30, 2005 to Rio Branco's surveillance system (SSSD) for the monitoring of acute diarrheal disease, were reviewed. In a matched case-control study, case patients were defined as children aged <5 years who died following the acute onset of gastroenteritis (defined as fever, vomiting and/or acute diarrhea (i.e., three or more watery stools per day)) reported to the SSSD. Controls were defined as children with acute gastroenteritis during the same time period who survived, selected from the nearest neighbor households of case patients. Controls were matched by age using an interval ranging from 2 months younger than the case patient to 6 months older. Samples of drinking water collected from the municipal system in Rio Branco, as well as from individual residences were evaluated for color, turbidity, and chlorine concentration. In addition, these samples were tested for the presence of bacterial contamination. However, detailed results of this water quality testing were frequently unavailable from the municipality, limiting our ability to carry out a detailed analysis of water quality during the outbreak. A total of 12 145 persons aged <5 years with acute diarrhea were reported to the SSSD between May and October 2005 (Figure 2). From May to October 2005, the cumulative incidence in children aged under 5 years (7757/37 688) was 21 per 100 inhabitants, significantly higher than that of those aged over 5 years (OR = 12.6 95% CI 12.1-13.0; p < 0.0001). Among eight case patient children aged <5 years with a fatal outcome (mortality rate = 0.1%), data were available for only seven. Their median age was 7 months (range 2-16 months) and four were male; all resided in urban neighborhoods of Rio Branco City with poor sanitation (e.g., open sewers) (see Figure 3, A and B).