Background: In August 2006 a physician from a rural village reported an outbreak of acute gastroenteritis. An investigation was undertaken in order to determine the magnitude of the outbreak, the source of infection and to prevent further disease. This is the first published outbreak of acute gastroenteritis caused by contaminated drinking water in Austria. Methods: For descriptive epidemiology, the investigators had to rely on voluntary cooperation from physicians and patients, data collected by a police officer and data on sick leave reported by physicians to the health insurance system. Results: Microbiological testing of water samples indicated that this cluster was caused by fecal contamination of untreated drinking water. Age and sex distributions were available for 146 of 160 cases: ages ranged from 5 to 91 years (median 45) and 81 cases (55.5%) were female. Stool samples from 14 patients were sent for microbiological analysis: all tested negative for Salmonella, Campylobacter, Shigella and Yersinia enterocolitica. Specimens were not tested for viruses, parasites or enteropathogenic Escherichia coli. On Friday, August 4, 2006, a family doctor in rural village A (approximately 2300 inhabitants) informed the local administrative authority about the occurrence of a cluster of acute gastroenteritis cases. One of two other physicians practicing in this community confirmed a sharp increase in the incidence of gastroenteritis; the third physician was on holiday. Physician 1 saw 114 cases (3 of them hospitalized); Physician 2 treated 46 cases (Fig. 1). According to Physicians 1 and 2, disease duration ranged from 2 to 5 days. Age and sex distributions for 146 cases were available from interviews conducted by a local police officer: ages ranged from 5 to 91 years (mean 47.3 years; median 45 years); of the 146 cases, 65 were male and 81 (55.5%) were female. The water system of the affected municipality consists of four springs feeding into one reservoir. The springs are located in a karst area, a geological formation known for its porosity and low capacity to cope with heavy rain. All but two water samples collected on the evening of August 6 were found to be contaminated with Escherichia coli (> 20 CFU/ml); the two samples, which were from the two outlets at point of use, showed increased total heterotrophic count but were free of fecal indicator organisms at that particular time. Disinfection by chlorination was initiated on August 6. The supply of drinking water was never cut off, but boiling was recommended before drinking. By September 16, the boiling restrictions were lifted.