In an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in Warrington, a town in North-West England, 47 cases were recorded between November 1992 and February 1993, most within the first month. There was a strong statistical association between cases and residence in an area supplied from two groundwater sources. In a case-control study, a strong association between having drunk unboiled tap water from these sources, and a dose-response relationship were found. Oocysts were not detected in the water supply. During very heavy rainfall one source of water was found to drain surface water directly from a field containing livestock faeces, thereby bypassing natural sandstone filtration. Exceptionally heavy rainfall occurred at the probable time of infection. After withdrawal of the original water supply, the outbreak rapidly subsided. It was concluded that there was very strong evidence that this outbreak was waterborne. This, the second documented outbreak of cryptosporidiosis attributable to a groundwater supply, demonstrates that infection can be transmitted from a disinfected groundwater source despite apparently satisfactory treated water quality. We recommend that guidelines for protection of groundwater are implemented, raw groundwater should be routinely monitored for microbiological contamination, and the structure of all sources and waterworks should be assessed in risk surveys of water catchment areas. This paper reports the investigation and control of an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis associated with a public groundwater source in Warrington, a town in North-West England on the banks of the River Mersey 15 miles from Liverpool. It has a mixed industrial base, a rural hinterland, and is at the crossroads of major transport routes. The first alert was when three cases of cryptosporidiosis were detected on 10 December 1992. By 14 December ten geographically clustered cases had been identified. Cryptosporidiumn oocysts were detected in faecal samples by the modified Ziehl-Neelsen method [12] at XVarrington District General Hospital Microbiology Laboratory. Once the outbreak had been recognized, all faecal samples from patients with diarrhoea underwent concentration to improve sensitivity (Evergreen faecal parasite concentrator, Los Angeles). The validity of the diagnosis was confirmed in three cases by the C(ryptosporidium Reference Laboratory at Rhyl. Detailed information about the water treatment plants, the water distribution system, and the hydrogeology were obtained from records of North West Water Ltd, National Rivers Authority and Warrington Borough Council, and from site visits, and specialized physical investigations. Water quality records were available from 1986. From 16 December 1992-16 March 1993, 30 water samples from the treatment works and service reservoir, and a leisure centre (chosen as it was readily accessible), were analysed for the presence of cryptosporidial oocysts by a standard method [15]. Forty-seven laboratory confirmed cases were recorded between mid-November 1992 and February 1993 compared to six expected. Two were detected only by faecal concentration. Thirty-seven cases were primary, and ten secondary. The outbreak curve was of a propagated epidemic type, which suggests either person-to-person transmission or a continuing common source [16] (Fig. 1). The attack rate was much higher in zone-129 compared to adjacent water zones supply (Table 1, Fig. 2). A wide age range, very similar to that found in a national survey [17], was observed with a peak in children 0-4 years old (19/47, 40%), and a secondary peak in adults aged 20-29 years (10/47, 21 %). There was no association of cases with a particular occupation or institution. In those cases included in the case-control study. all had diarrhoea, 830% (24/29) had abdominal pain, 76% (22/29) nausea, 66% (19/29) vomiting, 62% (18/29) weight loss, and 520% (15/29) fever. In 76 % (22/29) illness had subsided by 2 weeks, and in all but one by 30 days; 11 % (5/47) were admitted to hospital.