A large outbreak of streptobacillary fever, confirmed by the isolation of Streptobacillus moniliformis from blood culture, affected 304 people, 43% of the total population of 700 in a boarding school. Raw milk initially appeared to be the vehicle of infection, but detailed epidemiological investigation showed significant statistical associations between the development of illness and the consumption of both milk and water. Further analysis showed that the association with water was independent of that with milk and that water was therefore more likely to have been the vehicle of infection. Opportunity for contamination of water by rats existed, although contamination was not confirmed by the isolation of S moniliformis from either rats or the water supply. The first case of fever was reported on Feb 11, 1983, and a further 24 cases presented the next day. Cases continued to occur in children and staff members, with a peak on Feb 14, when 86 people became ill. The onset of the last known case was Feb 21. The most striking clinical features of the illness were pyrexia of long duration accompanied by a centrifugal rash and arthralgia. It was not possible to make a diagnosis from clinical signs and symptoms. Patients remaining on the site were prescribed symptomatic treatment for pyrexia of unknown origin. Antibiotics were withheld until the causative organism was isolated 24 days after the onset of the outbreak. Erythromycin was then used. Initial epidemiological information was collected during unstructured inteviews with pupils and staff. Questionnaires were distributed to the total population to obtain details of possible exposure factors and to generate hypotheses. Further questionnaires seeking more specific information about twelve variables and clinical symptoms were distributed to a sample of 230 people, chosen by means of random sampling tables. Data were stored in a PDP 11 computer at the Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre. Analysis was carried out with the \u2019Minitab\u2019 programme. A case-control approach was used; cases were defined as people with fever plus either spots or joint pains. Controls comprised those without these symptoms. Only definite yes or no answers were included in the analysis. Samples of blood, urine, faeces, skin scrapings, milk, water, and food were collected for microbiological examination. 617 (88%) of the 700 preliminary questionnaires and 205 (89%) of the 230 more specific ones were completed and returned. Analysis of 304 cases by day of onset of symptoms showed an epidemic curve suggestive of a common source outbreak (see figure), with exposure probably continuing over several days in early February. It is likely that the earliest cases, recognised retrospectively, occurred on Feb 6-8. There were no significant differences in attack rates between the whole population and the sample, but the attack rate in daygirls was significantly lower than that in boarders (20% v 54%; X2 = 34-31, p < 0-001).