In April of 2003, an outbreak of gastroenteritis was reported in a training command (Centro de Instruccio\u00b4n Te\u00b4cnica y Entrenamiento Naval (CITEN)) at a Peruvian naval base located near Lima, Peru. The Naval Medical Research Center Detachment, in collaboration with the National Peruvian Naval Hospital, conducted an investigation to determine the causative agent and potential source of the outbreak. Between April 3 and 5, 172 (16%) of 1,092 military trainees reported to the CITEN clinic with diarrhea. Of 74 trainees for whom bacterial cultures were performed, Shigella spp. were isolated from 5 (6.8%), Campylobacter spp. from 5 (6.8%), and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli from 2 (2.7%). Pathogenic parasites were identified in 22 of 64 (34%) trainees for whom microscopic observation for ova and parasites was performed. Stool samples from asymptomatic controls could not be collected, thus we were unable to confirm that the enteropathogens isolated were the etiologic agent(s). Several food items and the hands of food handlers were contaminated with coliform bacteria and drinking water was not adequately chlorinated. Preventative measures have since reduced the number of diarrhea cases at the CITEN. A diarrhea outbreak began on or about April 1, 2003, when health care workers at the CITEN clinic noticed a general increase in the number of trainees reporting with watery diarrhea. Diarrhea was defined as having three or more loose or watery stools within any 24-hour period, or two or more such stools accompanied by at least one additional symptom of enteric infection (e.g., nausea, vomiting, blood, cramps, fever, malaise). Investigators from the Naval Medical Research Center Detachment (NMRCD) and the National Peruvian Naval Hospital were deployed to the CITEN clinic from April 3 to 5 to determine the etiologic agent and source of the outbreak. During this 3-day period, 172 trainees presented with diarrhea, of whom 74 were able to provide a stool sample at the time of their clinic visit. Individuals who provided stool samples were queried on the symptoms they experienced as well as the duration of their diarrhea. Investigators from the National Peruvian Naval Hospital sampled food, water, and solid surfaces from the central kitchen and a small on-base store where food is sold, as well as the hands of food handlers. These samples were cultured for aerobic bacteria, Staphylococcus aureus, total coliforms, fecal coliforms, and E. coli according to protocols published by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration with guidelines from the Association of Official Analytical Chemists and the American Public Health Association in the Bacteriological Analytic Manual (www.cfsan.fda.gov/~ebam/bam-toc.html). In April 2003, the total number of individuals training at the CITEN in all three classes was 1,092 (242 women, 850 men) and the age range of trainees was 18 to 24 years (Table I). Between April 3 and 5, 2003, 172 trainees (attack rate 16%) sought medical attention for watery diarrhea and associated symptoms. Of these, 74 trainees provided stool samples for bacteriologic culture; only 64 of these samples were of sufficient quantity to perform microscopic observation for ova and parasites.