Giardiasis is a common waterborne gastrointestinal illness. In 2007, a community giardiasis outbreak occurred in New Hampshire, USA. We conducted a cohort study to identify risk factors for giardiasis, and stool and environmental samples were analysed. Consuming tap water was significantly associated with illness (risk ratio 4.7, 95% confidence interval 1.5-14.4). Drinking-water samples were coliform-contaminated and a suspect Giardia cyst was identified in a home water filter. One well was coliform-contaminated, and testing indicated that it was potentially under the influence of surface water. The well was located 12.5 m from a Giardia-contaminated brook, although the genotype differed from clinical specimens. Local water regulations require well placement at least 15 m from surface water. This outbreak, which caused illness in 31 persons, represents the largest community drinking-water-associated giardiasis outbreak in the USA in 10 years. Adherence to well placement regulations might have prevented this outbreak. On 9 September 2007, the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services (NHDES) issued a boil water order for a 205-home community serviced by a common water system after routine water sampling detected the presence of total and faecal coliform bacteria within the distribution system. The community water system was divided into a west system (system A) and an east system (system B), with a number of wells supplying each (Fig. 1). Although the systems connected at one point through a valve, prior to and during the outbreak the valve was closed and the two systems were functionally separate, each with distinct water sources. On 17 September, NHDES received reports from two system A residents alleging infection with Giardia. NHDES notified the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services (NHDHHS) and an outbreak investigation was initiated. Confirmed, probable, and suspect case definitions were developed. Confirmed cases were residents of system A or system B with a positive Giardia laboratory test result and onset of gastrointestinal illness on or after 15 August or if asymptomatic, specimen collection date on or after 15 August. Probable cases were residents who experienced diarrhoea (\u22653 loose stools in 24 h) on or after 15 August without a positive laboratory test and whose residence drew from the same water system as a confirmed case. Four (15%) of 27 case households were home to two case-patients; in three of the four households, cases became ill several days apart and are potential secondary cases. The median age of cases was 49 years (range 3-83 years). Children aged <5 years accounted for one (3%) of 31 cases. Sixty-one per cent of cases were male. Patients had illness onsets from 20 August to 25 September (Fig. 2). Of 30 patients with clinical information, symptoms reported included diarrhoea (87%), abdominal cramps (83%), fever (23%), vomiting (23%), and bloody diarrhoea (10%). Reported duration of illness ranged from 2 to 30 days. Fourteen (54%) of 26 patients with diarrhoea reported experiencing recurrent diarrhoea, defined as diarrhoea that resolved for more than 1 day and later returned. Eighteen (60%) of 30 cases sought medical care. No deaths or illnesses requiring hospitalization were reported. Faecal coliforms were identified in well X on 10 September, and, as an initial response, well X was hyperchlorinated on 11 September. Repeat coliform testing of distribution samples were negative following hyperchlorination; however, chlorine residuals were high in the samples and invalidated the bacteria assay. After chlorine residuals dropped, distribution samples were again total and faecal coliform-positive indicating ongoing system contamination. On 21 September, well X was disconnected from the system, after which, no faecal coliform-positive distribution samples were obtained.