In 1998, an outbreak of gastroenteritis affected at least 448 persons including 122 staff at a resort hotel in Bermuda. A survey among staff indicated that gastroenteritis was associated with eating or drinking at the hotel (OR\u00af6\u00b10, 95% CI\u00af2\u00b14\u00b115\u00b11). Multiple specimens of drinking water had elevated faecal coliform levels and Escherichia coli present, suggestive of faecal contamination. Stools from 18 of the 19 persons with gastroenteritis that were tested were positive for genogroup-II Norwalk-like viruses (NLVs). RT\u00b1PCR analysis of a 3 l specimen of water produced a genogroup-II NLV genome with a sequence identical to that of NLVs in the stools of three ill persons. This outbreak shows the value of new molecular diagnostics to link illness with a contaminated source through the use of sequence analysis. The risk of outbreaks such as these could be reduced in tourism dependent regions like Bermuda and the Caribbean by regular evaluation of data from the inspection and monitoring of drinking water supplies and waste water systems, by ensuring the chlorination of supplemental drinking water supplies and by establishing food-safety initiatives. On 10 February 1998, the BDOH was notified of gastrointestinal illness among 14 foreign guests of a large resort hotel with 402 rooms and a capacity of 900 persons. Five days later additional persons with illness were reported with some visiting the local emergency room after attending various functions at the hotel. On 21 February, the hotel was closed because of the numbers of reported cases and the presence of faecal coliforms in the potable water supply. On 23 February, the BDOH invited a team from the Caribbean Epidemiology Centre (CAREC) to assist with an investigation to identify the causative agent and its mode of spread, and to help with control and prevention measures. A suspected case of gastroenteritis was defined as a foreign guest, local patron, or worker at the hotel who developed either nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea (3 or more loose stools in a 24 h period), or abdominal cramps during 5\u00b121 February 1998. To identify cases, we interviewed the hotel staff, and patients identified from the telephone hot-line reports, the local hospital's emergency room log, the hotel physician's log, the hotel's complaints log and listings of ill persons reported by organizers of functions held at the hotel. Water was collected from the terrace tank and at various sites along the hotel's potable water supply and tested for coliform bacteria and residual chlorine. Three litres of water collected from the terrace tank was sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta to test for viral organisms. The potable and waste water systems of the hotel were reviewed to identify opportunities for contamination of the potable water system and deficiencies in the management of these systems. The hotel maintained no logs or procedural guidelines for its water supply so we constructed a profile of the existing systems. Based on the dates of onset for 401 suspected cases, the outbreak began on 7 February and peaked on 15 February (Fig. 1). The 17 confirmed cases showed a similar pattern (Fig. 2). During the period 7\u00b121 February, the estimated minimum cumulative attack rate for foreign guests was 16% (142}868) and, for subgroups of foreign guests for whom accurate estimates could be made, attack rates were much greater. For example, the cumulative attack rate for a group of 109 golfers was 40% and for a group of 79 from a pharmaceutical company it was 54%. The hotel had a roster of 462 staff (289 full-time, 74 part-time, 99 temporary) and approximately 375 were employed during February. Sanitary inspection of the water supply identified a number of deficiencies. The access cover for the terrace tank was rusted, improperly secured and sunken below ground level, allowing surface run-off water to enter the tank. The tank had been last cleaned more than 5 years before and debris was found at the bottom of the access to the tank.