Context. Small round-structured viruses (SRSVs) are known to cause viral gastroenteritis, but until now have not been confirmed in the implicated vehicle in outbreaks. Objective. Investigation of a gastroenteritis outbreak. Design. After applying epidemiologic methods to locate the outbreak source, we conducted environmental and laboratory investigations to elucidate the cause. Setting. Tourists traveling by bus through Alaska and the Yukon Territory of Canada. Participants. Staff of a restaurant at a business complex implicated as the outbreak source, convenience sample of persons on buses that had stopped there, and bus employees. Main Outcome Measures. Odds ratios (ORs) for illness associated with exposures. Water samples from the restaurant and stool specimens from tourists and restaurant staff were examined by nucleic acid amplification using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and sequencing of viral amplification products. Results. The itineraries of groups of tourists manifesting vomiting or diarrhea were traced back to a restaurant where buses had stopped 33 to 36 hours previously. Water consumption was associated with illness (OR, 5.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.3-12.6). Eighteen of 26 employees of the business complex were ill; although not the index case, an employee ill shortly before the outbreak lived in a building connected to a septic pit, which was found to contaminate the well supplying the restaurant's water. Genotype 2/P2B SRSV was identified in stool specimens of 2 tourists and 1 restaurant employee. Stools and water samples yielded identical amplification product sequences. Conclusions. The investigation documented SRSVs in a vehicle epidemiologically linked to a gastroenteritis outbreak. The findings demonstrate the power of molecular detection and identification and underscore the importance of fundamental public health practices such as restaurant inspection, assurance of a safe water supply, and disease surveillance. The outbreak was reported to the Alaska Division of Public Health after a Fairbanks, Alaska, hotel operator recognized that ill bus passengers were staying at the hotel. Ill bus passengers were also identified in hotels in Skagway and Valdez, Alaska; the investigation subsequently implicated a restaurant in the Yukon Territory of Canada in a small community on the Alaska Highway. Overall, ofthe 654 bus passengers represented in the trips analyzed in this report, 274 persons were interviewed (there were no refusals) and 108 met the case definition. Detailed data on symptoms were collected from 54 ill passengers and 10 ill bus company A employees; most frequent symptoms were diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea (Table 2). Since most ill persons were symptomatic when interviewed, mean duration of illness was not calculated; we observed that many were improving within 24 to 48 hours. A minimum of 6 persons required hospitalization for dehydration or correction of electrolyte abnormalities. Onset dates for passengers ranged from June 26 to July 12 (Figure 1). Age was recorded for 100 of 128 passengers interviewed face to face; median age of 42 cases, 65.0 years, was similar to that of 58 persons not meeting the case definition, 64.5 years. We did not investigate reports of secondary illness.