Hein\u00e4vesi, a Finnish municipality with a population of 4860 inhabitants, had an outbreak of gastroenteritis in March 1998. On the basis of an epidemiologic survey, an estimated 1700-3000 cases of acute gastroenteritis occurred during the outbreak. Municipal water consumption was found to be associated with illness (risk ratio [RR] = 3.5, 95% confidence interval, 3.11 1 RR 1 3.96). Norwalk-like virus (NLV) genogroup II (GGII) was identified in untreated water, treated water, and 4 tap water samples by use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. This was the first time NLVs had been detected in municipal tap water. Fifteen of 27 patient stool samples had NLV GGII, with an identical amplification product to that found in the water samples, indicating that the outbreak was caused by this virus. In some patients, NLV genogroup I was also encountered. This virus, however, could not be detected in the water samples. Inadequate chlorination contributed to the survival of the virus in the water. In March 1998, an increase in the number of patients with gastroenteritis was observed at the local health care center. In early April, the first findings of NLVs in patient stool samples were reported, and extensive environmental and epidemiologic investigations were initiated. Because of the spread and extent of the epidemic, a possible waterborne route was suggested. Superchlorination of the municipal water system was performed on 9 April, and cases occurred only sporadically thereafter. Epidemiologic investigation. A retrospective epidemiologic study was initiated to determine the incidence of gastroenteritis and a possible common source of infection. A mailed inquiry was selected for data collection because of a lack of interviewers. On the basis of the given answers in the questionnaire, a case was defined as a person who had suffered stomach disease (vomiting and/or diarrhea and/or nausea) between 26 February and 7 April. Cases classified as primary were those with no gastroenteritis among family members, schoolmates, fellow workers, etc., for 1-2 days prior to the onset of illness; the remainder were classified as secondary. The age distribution of the population was based on data from the National Population Registry in early 1997. The chlorine concentration values measured during the outbreak were much lower than the goal value of 0.8mg/L, ranging between 0.07 and 0.3mg/L (figure 3A); on occasion, the chlorine may even have been totally lacking. No common foodborne source for the epidemic was found; instead, the number of cases among inhabitants consuming municipal drinking water (1440/1710) was considerably higher than among those who did not use the water (209/869). The risk calculation from 2579 answers revealed that those who used municipal tap water had 3.5 times higher risk of developing disease than those using water from a private well, boiled water, or bottled water (95% CI, 3.11-3.96). In these samples no parasites, such as Giardia cysts or Cryptosporidium oocysts, were identified. Routine measurements of water had been continuously negative for fecal coliforms, but the samples taken immediately after a cleaning operation of the larger water tank on 26-27 March revealed total coliforms at concentrations of 48 cfu/100 mL. On 2 April, the number of total coliforms was 35 cfu/100 mL in tap water and total chlorine concentration <0.03 mg/L. Chlorination with or without sand filtration is a commonly used water treatment method at small waterworks throughout the world. During the outbreak detailed, the chlorination of untreated water at the Hein\u00e4vesi waterworks was inadequate for the purpose of destroying NLVs. Viruses have thus far not been included in the quality assessment of drinking water [21], even though it has been shown that enteric viruses are generally more resistant to chlorination than bacteria [22, 23]. Regular survey for viruses in drinking water should be considered in the prevention of waterborne viral epidemics, especially now that sensitive methods for detecting viruses in water are available.