In August 1998, a large outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred in a Swiss village of 3500 inhabitants whereof more than 50% were affected. A high contamination of drinking water with faecal coliforms revealed a defect in the waste water system. The objective of the present study was to investigate the outbreak in respect of the presence of human pathogenic viruses. Drinking water and clinical samples from patients were examined for the presence of \u2018Norwalk-like viruses\u2019 (NLVs) and enteroviruses. NLVs and enteroviruses were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in one of two drinking water samples. Five of seven stool samples from ill persons were positive for NLVs. Typing of NLV-specific RT-PCR products by DNA sequencing revealed the presence of an identical genogroup-1 strain closely related to Southampton virus in both the water and one of the stool samples. A genogroup-2 NLV strain was identified in all positive stool samples. The enteroviral amplicon showed high sequence similarity with swine vesicular disease virus. These results demonstrate that the drinking water was highly contaminated with enteric viruses and that at least two NLV strains were involved in this outbreak of gastroenteritis. In August 1998, a large outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred in a karst area of Switzerland. More than half of the 3500 inhabitants of a village suffered from gastroenteric symptoms. Public health authorities detected a high contamination of the drinking water with faecal coliforms revealing a defective pump in the waste water system. The failure of this pump blocked the sewerage and led to infiltration of sewage into the ground water which was collected for drinking water. The aim of this study was to identify and characterise pathogenic viruses involved in this gastroenteric outbreak. Public Health authorities closed the local drinking water source, supplied the municipal water system  with clean drinking water from a neighbouring water supply, disinfected the water with chlorine and ordered boiling of the water before use for consumption or for washing of food.