Water treatment plants in the United Kingdom at significant risk of cryptosporidiosis and using conventional filtration methods have been required to install 24-h monitoring systems since April 2000. No major waterborne outbreaks have been described since 2001. Small outbreaks have been associated with water. This paper describes such an outbreak. Data from a local multi-agency surveillance system was used to describe the outbreak, including mapping cases against water supply zones. A case-control study investigated hypotheses raised. All cases were genotype 1. Early cases were in the supply zone of a surface water-treatment plant that had met treatment standards. Later cases included residents in a different supply zone that temporarily received water from the implicated plant. Cases reported more consumption of domestic mains water than controls. Descriptive and analytical epidemiology thus supported drinking water as a source of cryptosporidiosis from a plant meeting regulatory requirements. The evidence for setting drinking-water standards needs review. We describe an outbreak of gastroenteritis due to Cryptosporidium hominis in a population of 158 558 served by a mixture of water from a groundwater source and a surface water-treatment plant at significant risk, and where the continuous monitoring samples never exceeded treatment standards. Five water treatment plants serve the area covered by the Portsmouth office of the Hampshire & Isle of Wight Health Protection Unit (H & IOW HPU) with a population of 459 014. Four of them supply ground water and one a mixture of surface and ground water. This last supply has been assessed as posing a significant risk and is continuously monitored. Thirty-five cases of laboratory-confirmed cryptosporidiosis were reported between 1 November and 31 December 2002 compared to the usual level of about 11 cases during these 2 months. An outbreak investigation and control team was promptly established. All faecal samples from the area were routinely tested for Cryptosporidium at the local laboratory using modified Ziehl-Nielsen staining. Positive samples were referred to the national reference laboratory for confirmation and speciation. Laboratory results, including full speciation and patient demographic details, were obtained and supplemented by direct contact with referring clinicians where incomplete. The case definition was any person who was resident in the catchment area of the Portsmouth office of the H & IOW HPU with diarrhoea with a date of onset between 1 November and 31 December 2002 and confirmed C. hominis infection. Exclusion criteria were travel outside the United Kingdom in the 2 weeks prior to onset of diarrhoea, secondary cases, defined as anyone having had contact with other individuals with diarrhoea in the 2 weeks prior to onset of illness, and cases suffering from chronic diarrhoea. Twenty-nine cases met the case definition. The other six incident cases were excluded because of recent contact with another individual suffering from diarrhoea (five cases) or a history of foreign travel (one case). Cases formed three distinct groups - naval personnel (11 cases, 38%), civilian adults (three cases, 10%) and children (aged <14 years, 15 cases, 52%). The mean age was 18 years (range 6 months to 58 years). The attack rate of 13.2/100 000 compares to y2/100 000 over this 2-month period in other years. The incidence peaked during the fourth week in November. Fourteen cases (48%) reported illness with onset during this week (Fig. 1). The water company\u2019s 24-h Cryptosporidium monitoring programme had recorded Cryptosporidium oocyst concentrations of <1/10 l of water, which is the regulatory standard, throughout October and November with completely negative sampling on 49 days, samples <4/1000 l on 10 days and samples showing 5/1000 l on 13 November and 8/1000 l on 28 November.