An analysis of the seasonal outbreak of diarrhoea in children in Kathmandu, Nepal, is reported. Vibrio cholera, 01 biotype El Tor Ogawa was the major cause of this epidemic The pattern of spread suggested a waterborne infection related to contaminated river water and this was confirmed by a field survey. Although the mortality rate was low, younger children were more susceptible. Enteropathogenic E.coli seems to be a major cause for diarrhoea after cholera amongst children in this study. A total of 694 children with watery diarrhoea were investigated during the 3 months from 3 July to 30 September 1994, at the ORT (Oral Rehydration Therapy) Center of the National Kanti Children's Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal. Bacteria] cultures of the stool were performed using TCBS (thiosulphate citrate bile sucrose) agar, alkaline nutrient agar medium (pH 8.2) for vibrio cholera. Simultaneously, SS {Salmonella and A field survey was carried out in several areas with high patient population. Water specimens collected from those areas were kept in an ice box and bacterial cultures were performed within several hours of harvesting. Each of 10 ml of alkaline pepton broth was added to 90 ml of the sample water and incubation was performed at 37\u00b0C for 4 h. Positive samples were subcultured in TCBS agar at 37\u00b0C for 24 h. Three cases of shigellosis were detected. Shiga type was confirmed in one patient serologically and Flexner type in two cases. Klebsiella spp. Were isolated in 23 and E. coli spp. in 510 cases. Enteropathogenic E coli were divided into subtypes by mean of antisera. No case of enterohaemolytic E.coli was detected. There were a total of 287 patients with cholera. The numbers were diagnosed by month: 107 in July, 111 in August, and 69 in September. The ages of the patients varied from 7 months to 14 years. Younger age groups showed higher morbidity (0.05>P>0.03). No difference was observed in relation to sex (Fig. 1). Vomiting, diarrhoea and dehydration were the most common symptoms. Stool frequency and colour varied. Approximately 50 per cent of the patients had continuous watery stool coloured like rice water. Four in-patients (2 per cent) died of cholera between 3 July and 30 September 1994. Other patients were cured by oral rehydration therapy and i.v. drip infusion of Ringer's lactate solution. Tetracycline was generally given orally for 5 days. Several clusters of patients were noted in densely populated peri-urban areas of the Kathmandu valley along the river. Vibrio cholerae were isolated in harvested samples of water from the river and canals flowing through patient clusters. An epidemic of Bengal 0139 biotype V. cholera which is a more aggressive strain than 01 biotype strain in India and Bangladesh is reported. We could not isolate non-01 biotype Vibrio cholerae from any choleric patients in the epidemic during the summer of 1994 in Nepal. Generally, symptoms were mild and not fatal, and patients responded to rehydration therapy and tetracycline. Younger children were more susceptible and seriously ill than elder children. Cotimoxazol has been widely employed in Nepal for acute gastroenteritis, however, the majority of strains of V. cholera were resistant.