In January 1999, a 10 day-long outbreak of gastroenteritis in a re-education ward, was reported by a hospital hygiene department. A potential common source of contamination was tap water. The stools of six patients with gastroenteritis and seven tap water samples from the hospital ward, were tested for SRSV by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT\u2013PCR): three stools and four water samples, all bacteriologically negative, were SRSV-positive. Nucleotide sequencing of a fragment of the SRSV polymerase gene showed that the sequences of the positive samples (two patients and four water samples) were identical (genogroup II). We cannot exclude interhuman transmission of SRSV together with viral soiling of some taps in the ward, but this hospital infection was more likely due to the transient contamination of the ward supply of drinking water with a SRSV strain. In January 1999, a hospital hygiene department reported to our virology laboratory an outbreak of gastroenteritis involving six patients on the first floor of a re-education ward. Some control measures were rapidly implemented consisting of careful handwashing, the use of gloves to handle body fluids and ward cleaning increased according to an intensified schedule. Meals were excluded as a potential source since illness did not occur in the two other floors of the building, where identical food had been distributed. Instead, tap water was suspected after the staff expressed doubts about its quality (sporadic gastroenteritis after drinking tap water, old water pipes) and its consumption was stopped. The six patients presented nausea (6/6) with malaise (6/6), vomiting (2/6), abdominal pain (6/6), diarrhoea (6/6), fever (2/6), lasting 48\u201372 h. (Table II Figure 1) The six corresponding stools were negative for group A rotaviruses and adenoviruses, and enteric bacterial pathogens (results not shown). Three stools (P1, P4, P6) were SRSV-positive by RT-PCR. Of the seven water samples collected at day three of the outbreak, three were also SRSV-positive: the fountain (W1) and two taps (W2 and W3) of patients\u2019 P4 and P1 bedrooms respectively (unfortunately, no water sample from patient P6\u2019s bedroom was available).