In May 2004, 97 of 309 (31%) and 97 of 207 (47%) school students from geographically distant areas were affected by acute gastroenteritis during excursions to neighboring hotels. The two hotels were 300 m apart, on Jeju Island, South Korea. Several strains of norovirus, including both genogroup I and genogroup II viruses, were identified in stool samples from the students and food handlers and in groundwater from the hotels. Of these several strains of norovirus, the nucleotide sequences for one strain were identical for samples from the students, food handlers, and groundwater. In May 2004, the Korea Center for Disease Control and Prevention received reports of two outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis during school excursions from two geographically different areas of Jeju Island (Fig. 1). One school visited hotel A from 17 to 20 May, and the other visited hotel B from 18 to 20 May. The two hotels were located just 300 m apart. Both epidemiological and virological investigations were conducted to determine the etiological agent of the outbreaks and the mode of transmission. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of the 309 and 213 students from the two schools, using structured questionnaires. A case was defined as illness for any student who stayed at hotel A or B and showed gastrointestinal manifestations such as vomiting or diarrhea (three or more loose stools within a 24-h period) during the 3 days after arriving on Jeju Island. Five food handlers (three for hotel A and two for hotel B) were questioned about cooking procedures, water sources, and symptoms of gastrointestinal illness. We also surveyed the environments of the hotel restaurants and water supply systems. Water sampling and concentration procedures were carried out by the National Institute of Environmental Research, Incheon, Republic of Korea. Briefly, all samples were collected with a filter apparatus containing 1-MDS filters (ZetaPor Virosorp, Cuno) according to standard procedures (6, 10). Samples of 570 to 1,400 liters were collected depending on the turbidity of the water, which ranged from 2.3 to 5.5 nephelometric turbidity units and was thus unexpectedly high.