Objective: An earthquake struck Kashmir on 8 October 2005. A central team of public health specialists was sent to Kashmir to assess the public health measures required following the earthquake, and to assist in institution of public health measures. Study design: Epidemiological and environmental investigation in Tangdar block (Kupwara district) and Uri Tehsil (Baramula district). Methodology: Visits to villages affected by the earthquake, rehabilitation camps and health care, examination of cases with acute diarrhoeal disease (ADD), environmental observations, collection of clinical samples from ADD cases and environmental samples from drinking water sources, and laboratory methods. Results: In total, 1783 cases of ADD were reported between 14 October and 17 December 2005 in Tangdar (population 65000). The overall attack rate was 20% in children under 4 years of age. Twelve cases of ADD with loose motions without blood were studied, and 11 rectal swabs and one stool sample were processed. No bacterial enteropathogens could be isolated, but three of the 12 samples yielded rotavirus antigen on enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Twelve of 13 (92.3%) water samples, collected from various stream or tap water (source: spring/stream) sources, were unsatisfactory (P = 0.001) using the H2S strip method compared with other sources (well/mineral water). All eight water sources in Tangdar block were unsatisfactory, indicated by blackening of H2S filter paper strips. Following the earthquake, drinking stream water or tap water without boiling or chlorination may have led to a common source water-borne outbreak of rotavirus gastroenteritis. Other contributing factors were: overcrowding; poor sanitation; open-air defaecation; poor hygiene; and living in makeshift camps near streams. Person-to-person transmission may also have contributed to perpetuation of the outbreak. Following the establishment of medical camps and information, education and communication regarding the need to drink boiled water and follow safer hygienic practices, the outbreak was brought under control. Conclusions: The earthquake in Kashmir in 2005 led to widespread contamination of drinking water sources such as stream and tap water (source: stream or spring). This appears to have led to a common source outbreak of rotavirus between October and December 2005, leading to ADD, amongst infants and small children, transmitted by the faecal-oral route and perpetuated by person-to-person transmission. Most water samples (Table 1) were unsatisfactory according to H2S strip testing (indicated by blackening of filter paper strip) or the MTT method. Three samples tested in duplicate by the MTT method (tap water from Teetwal, spring water near Kishanganga river, and stream water from Chadia Maidan) showed presumptive coliform counts of 10, >180 and 17 per 100 ml, respectively, and were also unsatisfactory (presumptive coliform count of \u226510 per 100 ml of tested water and/or presence of thermo-tolerant E. coli). Considering stream/tap water (source: spring/stream) as a single group (12/13 positive, i.e. unpotable) and well/mineral water as another group (0/2 positive, i.e. unpotable), a statistically significant association (l2 calculated 10.24, P = 0.001) between stream/tap water (source: spring/stream) and its unpotability, according to the H2S strip method, was observed. Eight of the 13 stream, spring and tap water sources, all of which were unpotable, were located in various villages of Tangdar block.