We report the first identified outbreak of cryptosporidiosis with Cryptosporidium cuniculus following a water quality incident in Northamptonshire, UK. A standardised, enhanced Cryptosporidium exposure 
questionnaire was administered to all cases of cryptosporidiosis after the incident. Stool samples, water testing, microscopy slides and rabbit gut contents positive for Cryptosporidium were typed at the Cryptosporidium 
Reference Unit, Singleton Hospital, Swansea. Twenty-three people were microbiologically linked to the incident although other evidence suggests an excess of 422 cases of cryptosporidiosis above baseline. Most were adult 
females; unusually for cryptosporidiosis there were no affected children identified under the age of 5 years. Water consumption was possibly higher than in national drinking water consumption patterns. Diarrhoea duration was negatively correlated to distance from the water treatment works where the contamination occurred. Oocyst counts were highest in water storage facilities. This outbreak is the first caused by C. cuniculus infection 
to have been noted and it has conclusively demonstrated that this species can be a human pathogen. Although symptomatically similar to cryptosporidiosis from C. parvum or C. hominis, this outbreak has revealed some differences, in particular no children under 5 were identified and females were over-represented. These dissimilarities are unexplained although we postulate possible explanations. On 23 June 2008, a small amount of Cryptosporidium sp. oocyst contamination (0.0005 oocysts/L) was noted, by continuous (but not real-time) inline water filtration cartridge monitoring (commenced 19 June), of the drinking water supply to approximately 258,000 people in central and western Northamptonshire (UK), provided from a surface water reservoir and treatment works based in the county (Drinking Water Inspectorate 2009). Repeat sampling taken up to the evening of 24 June showed a further rise. Local public health authorities were notified and a water supply emergency declared at 06.00 hours on 25 June. Control measures were instituted, including 'boil water' messages to users in the locality (Drinking Water Inspectorate 2009). To assess the extent of contamination, further water sampling was undertaken (continuous filtration and grab sampling) at strategic points in the distribution network, including from 
end user sites. A search for biosecurity failures was instigated and remediation initiated. Network flushing and storage reservoir decontamination was undertaken. Between 09.29 hours on 19 June and 11.50 hours on 23 June, six oocysts in 11,848 L of treated water (0.0005 oocysts/L) were noted in a continuous filter cartridge sample, where normally none would be detected. Sampling repeated between 11.50 hours on 23 June and 20.00 hours on 24 June showed a count of 418 oocysts in 5,064 L water (0.08 oocysts/L). Over the same period, no oocysts were identified in the raw water; an overwhelming of the treatment capacity of the plant was therefore discounted. Source identification centred on a biosecurity breach from within the treatment works. During the incident the maximum count of oocysts noted was 1.7 oocysts/L (10 L grab sample) on 26 June at a clean water storage reservoir site distal to the treatment works. Sporadic oocysts were found up until 22 July from storage sites, although counts were below 0.01/L by 2 July. Oocyst counts from end-user customer taps, peaked at 0.19 oocysts/L (259 oocysts in 1,391 L) at one address on 25 June and 0.007 oocysts/L (9 in 1,166 L) at another on the same date and over a similar time frame - a 27-fold difference. Counts at customer taps dropped to below 0.01 oocysts/L by 29 June, but sporadic oocysts were found until 3 August. End-user monitoring continued until 5 August.