A large outbreak of Legionnaires' disease was associated with Stafford District General Hospital. A total of 68 confirmed cases was treated in hospital and 22 of these patients died. A further 35 patients, 14 of whom were treated at home, were suspected cases of Legionnaires' disease. All these patients had visited the hospital during April 1985. Epidemiological investigations demonstrated that there had been a high risk of acquiring the disease in the out patient department (OPD), but no risk in other parts of the hospital. The epidemic strain of Legionella pneumophila, serogroup 1, subgroup Pontiac la was isolated from the cooling water system of one of the air conditioning plants. This plant served several departments of the hospital including the OPD. The water in the cooling tower and a chiller unit which cooled the air entering the OPD were contaminated with legionellae. Bacteriological and engineering investigations showed how the chiller unit could have been contaminated and how an aerosol containing legionellae could have been generated in the U-trap below the chiller unit. These results, together with the epidemiological evidence, suggest that the chiller unit was most likely to have been the major source of the outbreak. Nearly one third of hospital staff had legionella antibodies. These staff were likely to have worked in areas of the hospital ventilated by the contaminated air conditioning plant, but not necessarily the OPD. There was evidence that a small proportion of these staff had a mild legionellosis and that these 'influenza-like' illnesses had been spread over a 5-month period. A possible explanation of this finding is that small amounts of aerosol from cooling tower sources could have entered the air-intake and been distributed throughout the areas of the hospital served by this ventilation system. Legionellae, subsequently found to be of the thus it is possible that staff were exposed to low doses of contaminated aerosol over several months. Control measures are described, but it was later apparent that the outbreak had ended before these interventions were introduced. The investigations revealed faults in the design of the ventilation system. In April 1985 an outbreak of severe pneumonia occurred in Mid-Staffordshire. The public concern was heightened when the diagnosis was established as Legionnaires' disease and when early epidemiological investigations identified the new District General Hospital (DGH) in Stafford as the probable source. The outbreak was of a scale not previously encountered in the United Kingdom and the incident prompted the first Public Inquiry into an outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in this country [1]. This paper describes the history of the incident, the methods used in the investigation, and the principal epidemiological and environmental findings. Background and early history of the outbreak The outbreak became apparent during the weekend of 20 April 1985, when 12 patients (two of whom later died) were admitted to the DGH with pneumonia. The initial diagnosis was influenza, although legionnaires' disease was also considered. The illness was severe, with a high incidence of complications, including respiratory and renal failure. Reports from general practitioners and records of sickness absence in staff employed at the hospital and elsewhere suggested a widespread epidemic of respiratory illness in the district. On 30 April, with no sign of the outbreak abating and no conclusive microbiological diagnosis, the Public Health Laboratory Service Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre (CDSC) was invited to assist with the investigation. At this stage an estimated 136 patients had been admitted to the DGH with respiratory infections, few with any confirmed diagnosis. By 3 May two post-mortem lung specimens examined at Birmingham Public Health Laboratory (PHL) yielded organisms which were provisionally identified as Legionella pneumophila, serogroup 1. In addition, antibodies to L. pneumophila were reported in seven DGH patients by Manchester PHL. A case definition was formulated so that the extent of the outbreak could reliably be described. Criteria included clinical findings and results of microbiological investigations. Cases analysed in this report are defined as patients who had either pneumonia or acute lower respiratory tract infection and where there was laboratory evidence of one of the following: (i) culture of L. pneumophila from post-mortem lung or (ii) a fourfold rise in titre of legionella antibodies to 64 or greater using the immunofluorescent antibody test [2] (IFAT) or (iii) a single, reproducible IFAT titre of 128 or (iv) an IFAT titre of 64 on two occasions or (v) the staining of legionella organisms by direct immunofluorescence microscopy on post-mortem lung. In the case control study the interviews of patients with Legionnaires' disease and their matched controls had implicated the OPD as the source of infection. Case-finding revealed 175 hospital inpatients with chest infections in the three Stafford hospitals between 18 March and 20 May. Of these, 59 met the case definition for Legionnaires' disease, including 3 patients who had developed the illness whilst in hospital. A further 9 cases were identified in hospitals outside Stafford by reports from attending physicians and from information obtained from the OPD attender study. Thus 68 cases, of whom 22 died, were identified amongst hospital inpatients. Records of the remaining inpatients in Stafford with chest infections revealed a further 21 patients, 6 of whom died, who had clinical evidence consistent with Legionnaires' disease but for whom there was insufficient microbiological evidence to satisfy the case definition. In addition, 14 patients who had not been admitted to hospital were identified from general practitioners' records. These patients had had lower respiratory tract infections and IFAT titres of > 64. Thus the total of microbiologically confirmed and clinically suspected cases in the outbreak was 103 and ,he total deaths were 28. In this report data on the 68 confirmed inpatient cases and their 22 associated deaths are presented.