During 2011 a large outbreak of typhoid fever affected an estimated 1430 people in Kikwit, Democratic Republic of Congo. The outbreak started in military camps in the city but then spread to the general population. This paper reports the results of an ecological analysis and a case-control study undertaken to examine water and other possible transmission pathways. Attack rates were determined for health areas and risk ratios were estimated with respect to spatial exposures. Approximately 15 months after the outbreak, demographic, environmental and exposure data were collected for 320 cases and 640 controls residing in the worst affected areas, using a structured interview questionnaire. Unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios were estimated. Complete data were available for 956 respondents. Residents of areas with water supplied via gravity on the mains network were at much greater risk of disease acquisition (risk ratio = 6.20, 95%CI 3.39-11.35) than residents of areas not supplied by this mains network. In the case control study, typhoid was found to be associated with ever using tap water from the municipal supply (OR = 4.29, 95% CI 2.20-8.38). Visible urine or faeces in the latrine was also associated with increased risk of typhoid and having chosen a water source because it is protected was negatively associated. Knowledge that washing hands can prevent typhoid fever, and stated habit of handwashing habits before cooking or after toileting was associated with increased risk of disease. However, observed associations between handwashing or plate-sharing with disease risk could very likely be due to recall bias. This outbreak of typhoid fever was strongly associated with drinking water from the municipal drinking water supply, based on the descriptive and analytic epidemiology and the finding of high levels of faecal contamination of drinking water. Future outbreaks of potentially waterborne disease need an integrated response that includes epidemiology and environmental microbiology during early stages of the outbreak. Typhoid fever (TF) is an infection caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serovar typhi (S. Typhi). The primary symptoms are fever and related malaise, but serious complications, such as intestinal haemorrhage or perforation (1\u00b14% of all cases [1]), encephalitis, respiratory infections and metastatic abscesses can occur. Repeated and sometimes severe outbreaks of typhoid have occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo [5]. After a large outbreak of typhoid in the city of Kikwit, Bandundu Province, in the year 2006, typhoid became endemic, with low but persistent numbers of cases reported annually until another large outbreak in November 2011 to early January 2012. The 2011-2012 event resulted in 1430 identified cases. Seventy-one people developed peritonitis with perforation, and 17 people died in 2011-2012. The fatality rate was 1.5% [6]. An initial descriptive epidemiological study recognised that contaminated water supplies were likely responsible for most cases in 2011 [6], but did not elucidate on transmission pathways or other risk factors for infection in the subsequent phases of the outbreak. Study design and protocol for the spatial analysis is in S1 Protocol. During the 2011 typhoid outbreak, The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) created a central register line list of all cases, both suspected and confirmed. The case definitions were set by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH); 'suspected case' was any person with fever \u2265 38\u00b0C for more than three days and digestive disorders, which were defined as diarrhoea, constipation or abdominal pain, as well as a negative malaria test.