Typhoid fever is a systemic infection caused by a Gram negative bacterium, Salmonella typhi. Harare City reported 1078 cases of suspected typhoid fever cases from October 2011 to January 2012. We initiated an investigation to identify possible source of transmission so as to institute control measures. Methods: An unmatched 1:1 case-control study was conducted. A questionnaire was administered to study participants to identify risk factors for contracting typhoid. A case was a resident of Dzivaresekwa who presented with signs and symptoms of typhoid between October and December 2011. Water samples were collected for microbiological analysis. Results: 115 cases and 115 controls were enrolled. Drinking water from a well (OR= 6.2 95% CI (2.01-18.7)), attending a gathering (OR= 11.3 95% CI (4.3-29.95)), boiling drinking water (OR= 0.21 95% CI (0.06-0.76)) and burst sewer pipe at home (OR= 1.19 95% CI (0.67-2.14)) were factors associated with contracting typhoid. Independent risk factors for contracting typhoid were drinking water from a well (AOR=5.8; 95% CI (1.90-17.78)), and burst sewer pipe at home (AOR=1.20; 95% CI (1.10-2.19)). Faecal coli forms and E. coli were isolated from 8/8 well water samples. Stool, urine and blood specimens were cultured and serotyped for Salmonella typhi and 24 cases were confirmed positive. Shigella, Giardia and E coli were also isolated. Ciprofloxacin, X-pen and Rocephin were used for case management. No complications were reported. Conclusion: Contaminated water from unprotected water sources was the probable source of the outbreak. Harare City Engineer must invest in repairing water and sewage reticulation systems in the city. In January 2010 Zimbabwe witnessed a resurgence of typhoid fever in Mabvuku and Tafara suburbs of the City of Harare. This was against a backdrop of challenges in sewage reticulation and access to safe water. Harare City experienced another typhoid outbreak from October 2011to June 2012. The first positive case was confirmed by laboratory diagnosis, on the 31st of October confirming a typhoid outbreak. The 2nd case was confirmed on the 1st of November. This study was conducted to investigate the factors associated with contracting typhoid in Dzivaresekwa which was the epicentre of the outbreak. Specifically we intended to describe the outbreak by person, place and time, identify risk factors associated with contracting typhoid, assess knowledge of typhoid in the affected community, assess case management and assess the outbreak preparedness and response by the city health department. Twenty four cases were found to be positive for Salmonella typhi in stool, urine or blood. Only one death was reported. For the under fives, males were more affected (30%) than females (22%) while for the rest of the age groups females were more affected. Of all the age groups, the 25 to 44 age group was most affected with 29% male and 30%female cases. Figure 1shows the epidemic curve which indicates a propagated outbreak. Approximately two weeks after the improvement in municipal water supply and drilling of boreholes, the number of cases showed a decline. Samples of water were collected from shallow wells, boreholes and municipal taps for microbiological analysis. On 3 consecutive occasions, two of the 6 boreholes sampled were positive for E. coli and faecal coliforms. All shallow wells were positive for E. coli and faecal coliforms. All municipal tap water samples (10/10) were negative for faecal coliforms and E. coli. All the well water samples (8/8) were positive for E. coli and fecal coliforms. A sample from a spring yielded the same microorganisms. Treated shallow well water had residual chlorine of 0.1 mg/litre while 14 samples from municipal tap water had residual chlorine ranging from 0.1 - 0.5mg/litre. The most common symptoms suffered by the interviewed cases were fever (76.5%), headache (68.7%), diarrhea (67.8) and abdominal cramps (61.7%). Ciprofloxacin, X-pen and rocephin were used for case management based on drug sensitivity results. Nalidixic acid syrup was used for management of paediatrics about 2weeks into the outbreak. It was however discontinued after concerns of inability to achieve optimum blood concentrations as well as the probability of promoting decreased susceptibility or full blown resistance to ciprofloxacin. Intravenous fluids and oral rehydration solution were used as needed. No complications were reported. Patients were discharged from hospital on average after 3 days. Stool specimens were collected from those who tested positive for S. typhi to establish whether or not they continued to shed the salmonella typhi.