Investigations into disease outbreaks generally incorporate an epidemiologic investigation, laboratory analysis, and an environmental health assessment. This last component is designed to discover connections between factors in the environment and the outbreak, but is often limited, either by time and resources, or the expertise of the personnel included in outbreak investigation teams. A waterborne Norovirus outbreak investigation in Sheridan County, Wyoming, in 2001 provides an excellent example of the importance of including an in-depth, systems-based environmental health assessment in outbreak investigations. The epidemiologic component of this investigation identified the water supply of a snowmobile lodge in the Bighorn Mountains as the source of the outbreak, a result that was confirmed by laboratory analysis. Including a systems-based environmental health assessment in this investigation also helped to uncover the underlying environmental factors that led to contamination of the water supply. Those factors included an onsite wastewater disposal system that was overloaded by increased use and not well suited to local soil and geologic conditions and a drinking water system with no treatment or disinfection. In addition, heavy precipitation and increased pumping of wells to satisfy higher demands probably facilitated the contamination of the drinking water wells by causing greater movement of wastewater through the soil and underlying bedrock. By focusing on these links between factors in the environment and adverse health outcomes, the systems-based environmental health assessment also helped to highlight prevention strategies for avoiding recurrences. A systems-based approach was employed during the environmental health assessment component of an investigation into acute gastroenteritis among snowmobilers who had vacationed in Wyoming during the winter of 2001. Several groups of snowmobilers became ill during their trips or shortly after returning home, and a total of 70 ill peoples were identified. The epidemiologic investigation estimated that 230 persons were directly affected, and several required hospitalization (Anderson et al., 2003). Through the combined efforts of the Wyoming health, environment, and agriculture departments, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the outbreak was traced to the water supply of a snowmobile lodge in the Bighorn Mountains. As a result, the lodge was temporarily closed by the Wyoming departments of health and agriculture. The epidemiologic portion of the investigation identified the suspected agent as Norovirus, and has been fully reported (Anderson et al., 2003). The laboratory component of this investigation confirmed that the agent was Norovirus, and isolated identical nucleotide sequences in stool samples from patients and the water supply. In summary, the environmental health assessment component of this outbreak investigation was able to delve very deeply into the environmental circumstances surrounding the outbreak. This helped to go beyond the question of how exposure occurred (i.e., through drinking water) to determine very specifically why the water was contaminated. This was accomplished by uncovering the specific environmental antecedents that set the stage for this outbreak, which included - rapid expansion of the lodge\u2019s facilities, with a consequent increase in water use and wastewater production caused by more visitors; - lack of a concurrent expansion of the lodge\u2019s wastewater systems designed to handle those increased flows; - soil and geologic conditions that were not well suited for onsite wastewater disposal; - a drinking water system with no treatment or disinfection.