A waterborne Campylobacter jejuni outbreak in the Rheumatism Foundation Hospital in Heinola, Finland, in November-December 1986 is described. 32 patients and 62 members of the staff developed gastrointestinal symptoms. C. jejuni heat-stable serotype 45 was isolated from the faeces of 32 enteritis patients and from none of the controls. No other enteropathogens were found. Positive serological responses to C. jejuni acid extract antigen were detected by enzyme immunoassay in 34% of the symptomatic hospital patients, in 40 % of the symptomatic staff members, and in 10% of the controls. The clinical course of the illness was mostly mild and self-limited. No striking progress in the arthritis symptoms of the patients was found after the outbreak. The hospital has its own water supply. C. jejuni of the same serotype as the epidemic strain was isolated from the water of the pipeline system. After a careful examination some aged components of the waterworks were found to be responsible for leaks that resulted in the contamination of the water. On November 10, 1986, the hospital was notified that stool specimens taken 3-5 days earlier from 2 hospital patients and 2 staff members with diarrhea grew campylobacter. An epidemic alert was called on the same day. The first case of diarrhea that retrospectively could be connected with the epidemic had occurred 2 weeks earlier. The onset and spread of the outbreak is shown in Fig. 1. During the outbreak a total of 32 hospitalized patients and 62 staff members became ill. Stool samples available from 28 symptomatic hospital patients, and 60 symptomatic staff members were examined exclusively for campylobacter. They were inoculated on the selective medium of Skirrow (15) and incubated at 43\u00b0C in an atmosphere of 54/0 02, 10% C02, and 85Yo N2 for 48 h. Initially stool specimens from 3 symptomatic hospital patients, 2 symptomatic members of the staff, I control patient and 11 asymptomatic staff controls were subjected to broader analysis including the detection of salmonella, shigella and Yersinia enterocolitica in addition to campylobacter. For the isolation of salmonella, shigella and Y. enterocolitica routine methods were used. For the isolation of campylobacter from a frozen chicken, samples from the skin and liquid after thawing were cultured as above. For the isolation of campylobacter from water, samples were filtered through a 0.45 pm nitrocellulose filter, and the filter was placed on Skirrow agar sediment side up. The age distribution of the enteritis patients is given in Fig. 2. The illness lasted for 1-15 days (median 3 days). The clinical course was mostly mild, and self-limited. The symptoms in the epidemic patients are shown in Fig. 3. The investigation of stool samples revealed C. jejuni in 32 enteritis patients and in none of the controls. No other enteropathogens were found. All the isolated campylobacter strains were of the same heat-stable serotype 45.