Objective: To determine the cause and characteristics of illness of a Campylobacter jejuni outbreak in Denmark in 1995-96. Methods: A retrospective follow-up study was designed for culture-confirmed cases and for residents without a bacteriologic diagnosis. Stored clinical and environmental isolates were analyzed by serotyping and genotyping with restriction endonuclease analysis (REA), pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and ribotyping. Results: Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from 110 residents and visitors to the area. However, an estimate based on a telephone survey indicated that some 2400 people were affected by the outbreak. Water samples obtained from the community waterworks contained Campylobacter jejuni serotype 02, the same serotype as in all but one of the 30 stored isolatesfrom the outbreak. The water and clinical isolates also showed the same DNA profile, except for the single strain showing the distinct serotype. The contamination of the water supply was traced back t o contamination of ground water due t o a break in a sewage pipe. Conclusions: A retrospective and demographic epidemiologic investigation of both culture-confirmed and nonculture-confirmed cases in the town combined with typing of the isolates was crucial in defining the extent and cause of the outbreak. A case of campylobacteriosis was defined as a person who had an acute gastrointestinal illness associated with the isolation of Campylobacter in a resident or visitor of the town of Klarup in the period from 12 December 1995 to 3 March 1996. Cases were identified in the Department of Gastrointestinal Infections at Statens Serum Institut from fecal samples sent from the county for bacterial analysis. A possible connection to the outbreak area was checked by the patient completing a structured postal questionnaire concerning clinical features. Information on visitors who became infected in the outbreak area in the outbreak period was obtained from cases among residents. Discharge summaries were obtained for those admitted to hospital. Stool specimens were, throughout the outbreak, processed for C. jejuni/coli, Salmonella, Shigella, Ersinia, Vibrio, Aeromonas and Plesiomonas shigelloides. Testing for campylobacters was performed with Skirrow\u2019s medium, and plates were incubated for at least 48 h at 37\u00b0C in a micro-aerophilic atmosphere containing 90% N2, 5% O2 and 5% C02. A total of 87 (79%) culture-confirmed cases completed the postal questionnaire. Of these, 21 were excluded from the investigation: fifteen patients from North Jutland county had not been in Klarup during the outbreak period, four had been abroad less than 2 weeks before the onset of symptoms, one had known gastrointestinal symptoms prior to the outbreak period, and finally one uncompleted questionnaire was returned by the general practitioner because the patient had meanwhile died from causes unrelated to his gastrointestinal infection. The respondents in the C. jejuni culture-confirmed group had a median age of 24 years (interquartile range: 3-42 years), and a niale/female ratio of 1.2. Figure 2 shows the age distribution of bloody and non-bloody cases of diarrhea among culture-confirmed cases. Among patients below 20 years of age, a high frequency of patients (55%)) had experienced a bloody type of diarrhea. Thirteen patients were admitted to hospital, mostly for rehydration therapy and observation; one was appendectomized. Results of routine water samples from 25 January, obtained from mains in both the northern and southern parts of the town, showed on 27 January a very high fecal coliform count (>240/100 mL), as well as heterotrophic bacteria (>2500/mL and > 2100/mL respectively, 21 \u00b0C). The municipal hygiene laboratory received 5 L of water obtained from the hydrophore in the northern part of the town, and on 9 February C. jejuni was isolated from this water.