Following Cyclone Aila, a block of Sundarban area, West Bengal, India, reported an increased number of diarrhoea cases at the end of May 2009. This study was performed to identify the agent and source of the outbreak as well as to propose control measures. The outbreak is described by time, place and person. A matched case-control study was conducted and rectal swabs and water specimens were collected. In total, 1076 probable case patients and 14 deaths (attack rate 44/10 000) were identified. Vibrio cholerae El Tor Ogawa was isolated from two of five probable case patients\u2019 stool specimens. The outbreak started in the fourth week of May, with two peaks in the second and fourth weeks of June, and lasted until August 2009. Compared with controls, cases were more likely to drink non-chlorinated piped water [matched odds ratio (MOR) = 16, 95% CI 4.9-51; population attributable fraction 58%) and were less likely to drink chlorine-treated water (MOR= 0.06, 95% CI 0.02-0.18). Villagers broke the water pipelines near their houses for easy access to water. Piped water specimens and stored drinking water were positive for faecal contamination. Contaminated drinking water was the probable source of the cholera outbreak. Repairing the pipelines, chlorination at household level and educating villagers regarding the danger of breached water pipe connections controlled the outbreak. Gosaba block is situated in the remote Sundarban area close to the Bay of Bengal. On 25 May 2009, Cyclone Aila hit the islands of the block. River embankments were breached by storm surges causing flooding of many residential areas. The event devastated the life and livelihood of the people. Monthly surveillance data for diarrhoea between January 2007 and May 2009 were compiled. Information regarding any recent change in the case definition, surveillance and population size was reviewed. A case was defined as the occurrence of acute watery diarrhoea, i.e. three or more loose stools per day, with severe dehydration admitted to any healthcare facility among residents of Gosaba block of any age between May and August 2009. A random sample of case patients was interviewed and medical records were abstracted to collect information regarding demographic characteristics, signs and symptoms, number of household members present and affected, food habits, drinking water, laboratory investigations and outcome. Among 95 acute watery diarrhoea case patients identified between the fourth week of May and the first week of June, 53 (56%) had nausea, 42 (44%) had severe dehydration, 35 (37%) had abdominal cramps and 33 (35%) had vomiting. The outbreak started in the fourth week of May, with two peaks in the second and fourth weeks of June, and lasted until August 2009 (Figure 1). The median age of acute watery diarrhoea case patients was 25 years (range 1-85 years), and 486 (45%) were female. The attack rate among 0-4-year-olds was 54 per 10 000, which was higher than among other age groups. On 25 May 2009, Cyclone Aila damaged the piped water supply system of the block totally. Many submerged ponds with saline water and several tube wells submerged under saline water were observed. In all the affected villages there was a high demand for safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, temporary shelters and critical medical facilities. Many of the villagers who had to drink water from non-submerged ponds for their survival, had suffered from acute watery diarrhoea at the beginning of the outbreak. Public taps were few in number and more than 500 ft away from many houses. In addition, an ongoing rumour suggested that the outbreak was due to the bodies of animals that died due to trauma or drowning during the storm surge. Drinking water sources in these areas are mainly piped water and tube wells. The affected areas were visited again between the fourth week of June and the first week of July as the occurrence of cases showed an upward trend. It was found that the villagers had broken the repaired water pipelines to draw water nearer to their houses. They used this point as a tap and after use they would close the broken pipeline with plastic/polythene. Pump workers were also interviewed and it was found that water was chlorinated twice weekly. Piped water was not tested regularly to check the quality at different points. In this study, two tap-water specimens were collected again to check the quality and were found to have coliform counts of 1600 and 1800 MPN (most probable number)/100 ml. Water collected from five of seven stored water specimens in affected households had a coliform count of 1800 MPN/100 ml and the other two had coliform counts of 8 and 220 MPN/100 ml. Open-air defecation among children was common practice. Villagers had a belief that the stool of children was non-infectious. The block authority provided several medical camps at different strategic points for rapid clinical identification and treatment, daily chlorination, and initiated health education regarding the danger of breached water pipelines, the importance of storing drinking water in a narrow-mouthed container and chlorine treatment at the household level. This intervention led to a gradual decrease in incidence and the outbreak came to an end in the fourth week of August.