In August 2002 an outbreak of Shigella sonnei infection occurred in a Spanish town of 6343 inhabitants. In total, 756 people developed acute gastroenteritis and 181 cases were shigella-confirmed. The peak incidence was during 5-6 August 2002. The estimated primary attack rate was 9.97%; the attack rate for secondary cases was 38%. The <15 years ago group was most affected (16.49%). The town and its surroundings were served by two water systems, A and B. The cases had consumed water provided by system A (attack rate 164 cases/1000 population). Microbiological analysis of water from system A did not show the presence of coliform bacteria or shigella. This shigellosis outbreak was the largest reported in Spain. The impact of the epidemic was probably greater than the incidence detected. In August 2002, an outbreak of acute gastroenteritis due to S. sonnei occurred in the town of Santa Maria de Palautordera (SMP). The epidemic curve and the geographical distribution of cases suggested a common source outbreak. This was the largest outbreak of shigellosis recorded in Spain. We describe the outbreak and the investigation which showed drinking water as the cause. In the first days of August, the emergency department of the primary health-care centre of SMP and the closest hospital, the Sant Celoni Hospital, saw many patients with acute gastroenteritis, most with onset of symptoms between 4 and 5 August. In subsequent days, other hospitals in Catalonia reported cases related to the outbreak. A prospective, longitudinal, observational study was carried out. A case-control study would have enabled the causal relationship between the risk factor and the disease to be identified. However, an observational study was made due to the difficulties of carrying out a case-control study, which included the size of the outbreak and the resources available. All persons with two or more of the following symptoms of acute gastroenteritis : diarrhoea (two or more stools in 24 h, with or without blood or mucus), nausea and/or vomiting, abdominal pain and fever and having been in SMP (as resident or visitor) between 1 and 5 August 2002. Stool samples of the cases treated by the SMP primary health-care centre were sent to the Food Poisoning Research Support Laboratory of the Vall d\u2019Hebron Hospital of Barcelona. Technicians of the Section of Environmental Health and the Head Chemist of the Territorial Delegation of Barcelona of the Department of Health inspected the water supply network, analysed residual chlorine levels and obtained water samples from several points of the network. The symptoms were similar in probable and confirmed cases: profuse diarrhoea (98% of the cases), diarrhoea with blood/mucus (10%), abdominal pain (90%), fever \u226539 \u00b0C (84%), and vomiting (49%). Hospital admission was necessary in 1.8% of cases. Samples for stool culture were obtained in 247 cases; 181 (24% of cases detected) were confirmed with positive stool culture for S. sonnei, without detection of other enteropathogens. Control measures included the hyperchlorination and cleaning of the network of company A during 7-8 August ; emergency water supplies using buckets and switching the system of company B to company A for 5 days (Table 2); improvement of treatment conditions of the water provided by company A; health education of families of the cases, and antibiotic treatment of the cases according to the antibiogram.