An outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred at a Pennsylvania summer camp in July 1978. Symptoms included abdominal pain (81 per cent), nausea (72 per cent), and vomiting (53 per cent); upper respiratory infection symptoms occurred in 35 per cent of the campers. Illness was associated with consumption of five or more glasses of water or water-containing beverages. Stool cultures from affected persons were negative for bacterial pathogens; however, a fourfold or greater rise to the Norwalk agent was demonstrated in serum samples of three of three ill persons tested and in none of eight controls (p < .02). Campers ill during the first session who were also present during the second session did not become ill during the second session (p < .001). Public health nurses conducted a telephone survey of neighboring summer camps and health care facilities to determine the number of cases of gastroenteritis reported compared to similar reports from the previous two years. Camp infirmary records from both first and second sessions for the years 1976-1978 were reviewed. On July 31 
we administered a questionnaire to all campers and staff members regarding foods eaten in the week prior to the outbreak, amount of water drunk, and symptoms of illness. Cooking facilities, waste disposal, and the camp water system were evaluated. Records on the quality of the lake water were also reviewed. A telephone survey of other summer camps, physicians' offices, and hospital emergency rooms showed no increase in the number of gastroenteritis cases reported for the study period when compared with the number of cases reported for the previous two years. Six to 12 cases of gastroenteritis per session were seen in the camp infirmary during the two years before the outbreak. A review of the records from session 1 (June 26-July 22) revealed 73 cases of gastroenteritis out of 255 persons at risk (attack rate 28.6 per cent). When cases were stratified by residential area, no differences in attack rates were noted (Table 1). Review of infirmary records for Fluorescein dye studied failed to reveal any evidence of cross-contamination in the water system. Analysis of water from the system revealed fecal coliforms in the unchlorinated well water, increased fecal streptococci in kitchen tap water, and increased total coliforms in water from the end of the line (Table 5). Chlorine levels were measured on July 27; there was no residual on the end of the line. After adequate chlorination, chlorine levels of 2.5 ppm were obtained on July 28 and 1.5 ppm on July 29. 