A communitywide outbreak of gastrointestinal illness due to Giardia lamblia infection occurred in the city of Berlin, New Hampshire, during April and May 1977. The clinical, epidemiologic, and laboratory aspects of this outbreak are described here. In 213 predominantly symptomatic cases of G. lamblia infection diagnosed at the local hospital laboratory in a 6-week period, illness was characterized by prolonged diarrhea (median duration 10 days) and 13% of symptomatic infections required hospitalization. Treatment with either quinacrine or metronidazole was generally followed by symptomatic improvement. A communitywide survey of the city residents revealed that the majority (76%) of G. lamblia infections occurring during the epidemic period were asymptomatic and ran a self-limited course without treatment. No significant secondary, person-to-person spread occurred and no enteric pathogens other than G. lamblia were implicated. Water was epidemiologically implicated as the most likely source of infection with Giardia cysts being demonstrated in samples of treated water as well as in raw source water. Evidence supported the occurrence of two simultaneous outbreaks in this city which is supplied by two largely independent water supply systems. Inspection of the two water treatment facilities revealed several defects which permitted untreated (raw) water to mix with treated water. Human or beaver could have been responsible for contaminating source water with Giardia in this outbreak. A marked reduction in both clinical and subclinical giardiasis was apparent two months after onset of the outbreak, apparently as a result of measures applied to interrupt waterborne transmission of Giardia. In April 1977, a medical technologist at the hospital in Berlin noticed an increase in the number of stools positive for Giardia lamblia at her hospital. In a two-week period in early April, 100 cases of G. lamblia infection were diagnosed, the majority of which were in city residents with diarrhea. In contrast, no cases had been diagnosed over the preceding two years, when clinical specimens submitted for parasitologic examination were sent to the New Hampshire State Health Laboratory in Concord, New Hampshire. In 105 (66 per cent) of 158 ill Berlin residents, onset of gastroenteritis occurred during the last two weeks of April and first week of May. Although there was no significant difference in gastroenteritis attack rates between Berlin residents receiving water strictly from the Ammonoosuc River (22 per cent) and those receiving water from the Androscoggin River (26 per cent), the other water system, a rise in incidence occurred earlier in residents of the Ammonoosuc water system. Giardiasis-like illness occurred as frequently in residents of the Ammonoosuc sector (20 of 382, 5.2 per cent) as in residents of the Androscoggin sector (14 of 294, 4.8 per cent). In view of the data implicating city water as the common source vehicle responsible for this outbreak of giardiasis, control measures by local health authorities and the EPA were directed accordingly (3). Approximately two weeks following recognition of the first case of giardiasis, a boil-water order was issued. The order was in effect for the six weeks required to correct the operational and structural defects found in the water treatment plants. In addition, hyperchlorination of water (free-chlorine residuals of 2 - 6 mg per liter) was implemented. Hyperchlorination of water was implemented on purely empiric grounds, since at the time there were no good data available on the effect of this measure on the viability of Giardia cysts.