In Vicenza, northeast Italy, on May 17-19, 2002, suspicion of an outbreak of a waterborne infection was announced in the local newspaper, after seven players of the Vicenza football team complained of gastrointestinal symptoms. A broken sewer pipe in the football field irrigation system allowed water from the Bacchiglione River to enter the city aqueduct. Cases were defined as any gastroenteric symptoms in any citizen who had drunk tap water in the stadium area from May 16-19. The list of symptoms included fever, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea or bloody diarrhoea. On May 18 and 19, 71 symptomatic citizens attended the \u201cGuardia Medica\u201d medical centre, which provides out-of-hospital care at night and during weekends. 32 patients were referred to San Bortolo Hospital, six of whom were admitted for severe dysenteric symptoms. 20 patients were thought to be at high risk (age >60 years, comorbidity, and persistent symptoms) and prophylactic ciprofloxaxin was advised. In total, 146 stool samples (from hospital and community patients) were examined. Stools were processed for Aeromonas spp, Campylobacter spp, Salmonella spp, Shigella spp, Yersinia spp, rotavirus Escherichia coli O157:H7, parasite ova, and Cryptosporidium spp. No specific enteric agent was isolated. Microbiological examination of sampled aqueduct water revealed only a high concentration of coliforms. Since hepatitis A is another possible waterborne infection, local political and health authorities decided to vaccinate the population without screening. A survey on symptoms was done in vaccinated people. Overall, 670 (22%) of the 3006 exposed individuals reported gastrointestinal symptoms. In most people, symptoms spontaneously disappeared in a few days, and no deaths were recorded. Despite the health authority\u2019s inability to identify the ultimate cause of the infection, information on emergency water disinfection by boiling was quickly spread by the media. Vaccination began on May 22. More than 90% of the estimated exposed population was treated. After 1 month, the average time of incubation for hepatitis A virus, no case of acute hepatitis A infection was reported. The provision of so much vaccine created some logistical difficulties but was still undertaken quickly. This outbreak is one of the largest waterborne outbreaks reported in Italy. In 2000, in the Gulf of Taranto in southern Italy, an outbreak of Norwalk-like virus affected 344 people.1 This community in this case was fortunate that the response team was able to mobilise with effective speed to effectively limit the duration of the outbreak.