In May 2016 a Norovirus (NoV) gastroenteritis outbreak involved a high school class visiting a seaside resort near Taormina (Mascali, Sicily). Twenty-four students and a teacher were affected and 17 of them showed symptoms on the second day of the journey, while the others got ill within the following 2 days. Symptoms included vomiting, diarrhoea and fever, and 12 students required hospitalisation. Stool samples tested positive for NoV genome by Real-Time polymerase chain reaction assay in all 25 symptomatic subjects. The GII.P2/GII.2 NoV genotype was linked to the outbreak by ORF1/ORF2 sequence analysis. The epidemiological features of the outbreak were consistent with food/waterborne followed by person-to-person and/or vomit transmission. Food consumed at a shared lunch on the first day of the trip was associated to illness and drinking un-bottled tap water was also considered as a risk factor. The analysis of water samples revealed the presence of bacterial indicators of faecal contamination in the water used in the resort as well as in other areas of the municipal water network, linking the NoV gastroenteritis outbreak to tap water pollution from sewage leakage. From a single water sample, an amplicon whose sequence corresponded to the capsid genotype recovered from patients could be obtained. After outbreak notification, on 21 May, the resort was closed for 2 days. On 25 May, following the first results of the bacteriological analyses on municipal water samples, the use of municipal water for human consumption was temporarily restricted (use of water was permitted only for cleaning purposes) in the Carrabba and Fondachello villages and in the area surrounding the resort. From 25 May the reservoir collecting the water from the Carlino well and its chlorination device were submitted to maintenance work and a new chlorination device was installed on the conduit bringing the water from the Bufardo source. Actually, the Bufardo source had been connected to the municipal network in 2003 but unfortunately a dedicated chlorination station had not been planned at that time.