In June and July 2008, an outbreak of acute gastroenteritis with a total of at least 408 cases occurred in the municipality of Piran, Slovenia. The town has 17,400 inhabitants and is located in touristic area on the Slovenian Adriatic coast. The first 20 cases were reported on 26 June to regional Institute of Public Health Koper (IPH Koper). Preliminary interviews indicated that the only common source of exposure was the local water distribution system in Piran which supplies all inhabitants of the town. IPH Koper informed the local water distribution company on the same day, and control measures for containing the outbreak were implemented immediately. In June 2007, only 87 cases of acute gastroenteritis of infectious aetiology were notified to IPH Koper from the costal region of Koper with 142,000 inhabitants (including the municipality of Piran). In the whole year 2007, 1,321 cases were reported in this region (between 75 and 167 cases per month). According to the law on communicable diseases, all cases of acute gastroenteritis and outbreaks of communicable diseases in Slovenia need to be reported indicating the causative agent. All general practitioners and the regional hospital in the area were informed of the outbreak and encouraged to report all cases of acute gastroenteritis and to collect stool samples of cases. The samples were tested for gastrointestinal bacteria (Salmonella, Shigella, Campylobacter, Escherichia coli, Yersinia), viruses (rotavirus, adenovirus, norovirus) and parasites. A risk assessment of the drinking water distribution system and laboratory testing of the water were systematically undertaken in affected area (Piran). Water samples were tested for E. coli, coliform bacteria, enterococci, Clostridium perfringens, and the total number of colonies at 22\u00b0C and 37\u00b0C. A retrospective cohort study was conducted. Our aim was to estimate the magnitude of the event and to test the hypothesis that the drinking water from the distribution system was the source of infection. The information was collected by questionnaires. Because the exact number of exposed people in Piran was impossible to determine with many visitors staying only for the day, the investigation targeted the 1,470 households in the area of Piran. Four questionnaires were posted to each household - 5,880 questionnaires altogether. The questions covered demographic data, disease symptoms, and epidemiological data with an emphasis on exposure to drinking water from the water distribution system. A case was defined as any person that stayed in Piran on and after 19 June and developed one of the following symptoms: diarrhoea, vomiting, or abdominal pain. The collected data were analysed using EpiInfo 3.3.5 and SPSS 13.0 software. Case finding and laboratory analysis of stool samples By 1 August 2008, 170 cases of acute gastroenteritis that could be connected with the outbreak had been reported by health services. All had developed symptoms between 25 June and 11 July 2008. Laboratory analysis of stool samples was conducted for 43 reported cases (25.3%). Twenty-six samples were negative and 17 were positive. The microbiological agents identified in the positive samples are shown in Table 1. All water samples taken from the local distribution system in the area of Piran taken on 26 June showed faecal contamination. The values for all tested bacteria were above the recommended limits. It was assumed that the water had been contaminated in the night between 23 and 24 June when the water supply system in this area was connected to a newly built part of the system. Measures were taken to clean up the water distribution system in the area: The degree of contamination was followed up daily, starting on 26 June. On 15 July, the two consecutive water samples were negative and the water was again suitable for drinking. Table 3 lists the symptoms reported by the cases. The mean duration of illness was 2.7 days (range 0-5 days). 130 cases (31.9%) sought medical advice, 16 cases (3.9%) were hospitalised, none died.