An outbreak of gastroenteritis affecting 234 pupils and 23 staff at a boarding school occurred over a period of 8 weeks. Campylobacter spp. Were isolated from pupils and staff, and from two samples of cold water taken from an open-topped storage tank which supplied predominantly unchlorinated water to the main school building. The two isolates from water were of the same serotype. This serotype was the commonest of the three serotypes of Campylobacter jejuni detected in isolates from pupils and staff. There was a highly significant association between consumption of water from the cold water storage tank and reported illness in staff. Attack rates in pupils corresponded closely with the extent of distribution of this water-supply to the main residential houses. Contamination of water by faecal material from birds or bats was the most likely source of infection. An outbreak of gastroenteritis was reported to the Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre (C.D.S.C.) on May 25, 1981, through the Medical Officers of Schools Association (M.O.S.A.) reporting scheme,4 in which at least 28 pupils had been affected and campylobacter had been isolated from stool specimens from 9 out of 24 of them. Investigation of the pasteurised milk supply did not suggest a milk-borne outbreak and attention was focused on the unusual water-supply to the main school buildings, which consisted of a private bore-hole supply in addition to a mains supply in common with the nearby village. Unchlorinated borehole water was stored in a cast iron open-top tank in the clock tower of the main school building (School House) before feeding into the cold and hot water systems, but when demand was heavy the supply was supplemented by mains water. The junior school and three houses in the upper school were supplied mainly, or solely, by mains water (fig. 1). Two 5 litre water samples were taken from the holding tank on June 1 by an environmental health officer and Campylobacter sp. was isolated from both samples at the P.H.L.S. laboratory, Chelmsford. After detailed interviews with a few of the affected persons, questionnaire surveys of staff and pupils were undertaken. Since the outbreak occurred during the examination term pupils could not be questioned until the end of term. Questionnaires asked for details of illness, consumption of water and milk, contact with animals, use of the swimming-pool, sources of drinking-water, and illness amongst friends and family.  A survey of 57 of 71 (80%) members of the teaching staff showed that 23 (40%) had had diarrhoea and/or abdominal pain between May 3 and June 4. Each episode of illness lasted between 1 and 14 days (mean duration of illness =4.4 days) and 1 teacher had two bouts of illness of 6 days and 5 days, separated by 4 days of remission. Attack rates by possible vehicles of infection showed a highly significant association with drinking-water from School House which was supplied mainly by the borehole/tank route. 21 of 39 (54%) staff who said they usually drank water each day from this source became ill compared with only 2 of 18 (11%) staff who did not usually drink water from the same source (table I).