The Wyoming Department of Health investigated an outbreak of acute gastroenteritis among persons who dined at a tourist saloon in central Wyoming during October 2001. Human caliciviruses (HuCVs) were suspected as the etiological agent of the outbreak based on the incubation period, duration of illness, and symptoms observed in ill patrons. A retrospective cohort study demonstrated that ill patrons were 4.5 times more likely to have exposure to drinking water and/or ice than nonill patrons. No food items were associated with illness. An environmental investigation gave evidence that the saloon\u2019s groundwater was contaminated with sewage. Water from the saloon\u2019s only well was processed for viruses. The processed water sample and stool samples collected from three ill patrons were analyzed by reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) for the presence of HuCV. All positive RT-PCR results were confirmed by sequence and phylogenetic analyses of cloned RT-PCR products. A genogroup I, subtype 3, HuCV stain was found to be present in the well water sample and two stool samples. In addition, a genogroup II, subtype 6, strain was detected in one stool sample. The identification of the same HuCV strain in both the well water and stool samples strongly suggests a link between exposure to well water and the outbreak of gastroenteritis. The presence of a genogroup II, subtype 6, strain in one of the stool samples suggests that multiple HuCV strains may have been involved in this outbreak. The laboratory isolation of HuCV strains from outbreak-associated drinking water is relatively novel in the United States. This investigation outlines the procedure for virus isolation and illustrates the utility of RT-PCR for the identification of HuCV in large volumes of water and stool samples obtained during outbreaks of acute nonbacterial gastroenteritis. An outbreak of gastroenteritis in patrons of a saloon in central Wyoming occurred during September and October 2001 (Fig. 1). A total of 76% (84 of 111) of the patrons interviewed by telephone developed acute gastroenteritis. Of the ill patrons, 91% reported nausea, 85% reported diarrhea, 82% reported vomiting, and 73% reported muscle aches. The average duration of illness was 2 days. Ill patrons were 4.5 times more likely to have exposure to drinking water and/or ice than nonill patrons (relative risk \u0005 4.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 15.9). An epidemiologic analysis of the relative risk of 41 food items from the menu indicated that none were statistically associated with illness. Environmental investigation. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality construction specifications require a minimum separation distance of 50 ft between a septic tank and a well and 100 ft between the septic tank leach field and a well for facilities with less than 2,000 gallons per day of domestic sewage flow. An environmental survey of the premises revealed that the saloon\u2019s only well was 50 ft away from its septic tank. However, the septic tank showed signs of being damaged and the leach field from another septic tank was within 50 ft of the well. The well was also 100 ft away from the effluent disposal of an recreational vehicle park located uphill of the saloon. The well was drilled through fractured basalt in 1977 to a depth of 80 ft. The casing of the well was fitted with a terminal screen and had perforations located between 65 and 75 ft below grade. Water quality monitoring records of routine quarterly samples indicated that the well had been positive for fecal coliforms in January 1995 and September 2001. Nitrate concentrations ranged from 1.5 to 5.1 mg/liter from 1994 to 2001. A pellet chlorinator was installed on the wellhead following the positive coliform test in 1995. An examination of the chlorinator following this outbreak indicated that it had failed due to pellet dust blockage of the \u201cdrop hole.\u201d Coliform analysis. Five out of six well samples tested positive for fecal coliforms, and six out six tap water samples were positive for total coliforms.