In July 2002 an outbreak of acute gastroenteritis occurred in a camp facility in western Norway during a 10-day seminar, with around 300 guests staying overnight and several day-time visitors. Environmental and epidemiological investigations were conducted to identify and eliminate the source of the outbreak, prevent further transmission and describe the impact of the outbreak. Of 205 respondents, 134 reported illness (attack rate, 65%). Multivariate analysis showed drinking water and taking showers at the camp-site to be significant risk factors. Secondary person-to-person spread among visitors or outside of the camp was found. Norovirus was identified in 8 out of the 10 stool samples analysed. Indicators of faecal contamination were found in samples from the private untreated water supply, but norovirus could not be identified. This outbreak investigation illustrates the importance of norovirus as a cause of waterborne illness and the additional exacerbation through person-to-person transmission in closed settings. Since aerosol transmission through showering contributed to the spread, intensified hygienic procedures such as isolation of cases and boiling of water may not be sufficient to terminate outbreaks with norovirus. On 17 July, the local food control authority was informed that four of the visitors had vomited, and had experienced diarrhoea and stomach pain lasting approximately 1 day. The centre was at the time hosting a religious summer camp lasting from 12 to 21 July. There were approximately 250-300 overnight participants at the camp, several of whom did not stay for the whole 10-day period. Additionally there were many 1-day attendees. We mailed questionnaires to all families entered in the booking list of the organizers of the camp. It was not possible to reach all participants since several persons arriving by boat or visiting only during the daytime were not registered. In total, 54 families were included, and asked about place and duration of stay, clinical symptoms, water and food consumed and about hygienic routines. A case was defined as a person who visited the centre during the period 12-21 July 2002 and fell ill with vomiting or diarrhoea (defined as three or more loose stools during a 24-h period) within 3 days of the visit. The well for the water supply was located close to the main building (10-20 m from the nearest building; see Fig. 1). The well was about 80 m deep, and drilled at a slight angle towards the buildings. The ground was composed of rock, with limited coverage in the area. The water pipelines were located in the same trench as the sewage pipes. Sewage was collected in a two-chamber septic tank located 50 m from the well. The septic tank was emptied approximately twice a year. Leakage and breaks had previously been observed around the tank. The effluent from the septic tank was discharged through a pipeline out into the sea. Some blockage of the sewage was suspected, as \u2018bubbling\u2019 occurred when the toilets were flushed. There had been no maintenance of the water supply or sewage system since the facilities were built in the 1970s. When the chapel was built some years ago there had been some construction work involving blasting in the ground. The chapel is located 15-20 m above the well (Fig. 1). General hygiene advice was given during the first telephone call on 17 July. During the first visit more specific hygiene advice was given and boiling of drinking water was recommended. On the next visit it was clear that the previous advice had not been followed. Some of the kitchen staff who had been ill were transferred to other tasks. We strongly advised that people working in the kitchen should not participate  in the cleaning of toilets and bathrooms. We also recommended an increase in the frequency of washing and disinfection of toilets, washes, and doorknobs to several times a day. Only bottled water or boiled water should be used for drinking purposes. The summer camp ended on 21 July. The water supply was closed on 24 July, and all later bookings were cancelled until a safe supply could be provided. We recommended finding a new water source located further away from the centre. In an interim period, installation of a disinfection system to the already existing water supply was accepted for smaller events.