From April 17 to May 1, 1989, gastroenteritis developed in about 900 people during a visit to a new resort in Arizona, USA. Of 240 guests surveyed, 110 had a gastrointestinal illness that was significantly associated with the drinking of tap water from the resort's well (relative risk=16&middot;1, 95% confidence interval 14&middot;5 to 17&middot;8) and this risk increased significantly with the number of glasses of water consumed (p <0&middot;005). Three of seven paired sera tested for antibodies to the Norwalk agent had a four-fold or greater rise in titre. Water contaminated with faecal coliforms was traced back to the deep water well, which remained contaminated even after prolonged pumping. Effluent from the resort's sewage treatment facility seeped through fractures in the subsurface rock (with little filtration) directly into the resort's deep well. Although the latest technology was used to design the resort's water and sewage treatment plants, the region's unique geological conditions posed unexpected problems that may trouble developers faced with similar subsurface geological formations and arid climatic conditions in many parts of the world. In these areas, novel solutions are needed to provide adequate facilities for the treatment of sewage and supply of pure drinking water. On April 28, 1989, the manager of this resort notified county health officials that many resort employees, guests, and members of a intramural health club had become ill with gastroenteritis during the preceding ten days. The extent of the outbreak was initially masked by a seasonal 'flu-like' illness in the region. When the outbreak was reported, nearly half the resort guests were ill with abdominal cramping, nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea. Although some guests had been ill as early as April 17,1989, no similar outbreaks were reported in the neighbouring community served by other water supplies. Of 240 guests surveyed, 110 (46%) had symptoms that met the case detrition: 47 (43%) had nausea; 42 (38%) had diarrhoea; 41 (37%) had abdominal pain; and 32 (29%) had vomiting. Some individuals had more than one symptom. The mean incubation period was 41 h, and symptoms persisted an average of 48 h. Few people felt ill enough to see a physician and only 1 person was admitted to hospital. The first guests became ill on April 17. The epidemic curve suggests that the outbreak peaked on April 30; only 2 people became ill after the well was capped on May 1 (fig 2). The highest attack rate (80%) occurred on April 29-30. There were no differences in attack rate by age, sex, race, or visitor group. The drinking of tap water from the resort's well was significantly associated with illness, whereas eating food from the resort dining room was not (table 1). There was an association with tap water irrespective of whether the water was consumed in the restaurant, health club, or guest rooms. Risk of illness increased significantly with the number of glasses of water consumed (p < 0-005) (table II).