In July 2000, an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred at a tourist resort in the Gulf of Taranto in southern  Italy. Illness in 344 people, 69 of whom were staff members, met the case definition. Norwalk-like virus (NLV) was found in 22 of 28 stool specimens tested. The source of illness was likely contaminated drinking water, as environmental inspection identified a breakdown in the resort water system and tap water samples were contaminated with fecal bacteria. Attack rates were increased (51.4%) in staff members involved in water sports. Relative risks were significant only for exposure to beach showers and consuming drinks with ice. Although Italy has no surveillance system for nonbacterial gastroenteritis, no outbreak caused by NLV has been described previously in the country. On July 18, 2000, the local health unit and the Institute of Hygiene of the Faculty of Medicine in Bari were notified about an outbreak of gastroenteritis at the resort. An epidemiologic investigation was initiated the same day to identify the agent and the mode and vehicle of transmission and to A case was defined as illness in any guest or employee who stayed at the tourist resort during the period July 1-31 and who had diarrhea (three or more loose stools in any 24-hour period) or vomiting (at least one episode) or both, in the same period. Case finding was done by checking records of the resort medical center; after July 20, a door-to-door search was initiated. Demographic data and information on symptoms were collected in face-to-face interviews by the medical staff of the local health unit and the University of Bari. Of 344 cases identified from July 1 to 31, 69 (20%) were in staff members. Information on personal characteristics and clinical presentation was available for 248 ill persons (Table 1). Diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain were observed in >70% of all cases. Five patients were hospitalized; all recovered rapidly and were discharged within a few hours. None of the patients had any further sequelae. Attack rates did not differ by age, sex, or symptoms for cases in guests or staff members. For cases in guests, the median interval from the arrival date at the resort and onset of symptoms was 4 days, and symptoms developed in 77% within 5 days. The epidemic curve shows three distinct peaks in each of the 3 weeks, beginning on July 12 (70 cases), July 18 (26 cases), and July 27 (55 cases). Over the total outbreak period, 275 cases occurred in guests and 58 in staff (Figure 3). Fifty seven percent of cases in staff members occurred before July 15. The outbreak lasted 24 days, and no cases were observed after July 31. All food samples tested were negative for enteropathogenic bacteria. Water samples collected on July 13 from faucets in the bar, the kitchen, and a guest room (Figure 2, point 6) had high levels of coliforms (up to 130 CFU/mL) and fecal streptococci (up to 22 CFU/mL). The same level of contamination was observed in water samples from the pipe connecting the resort to the public water supply (Figure 2, point 2); samples collected from the public water supply outside the resort (Figure 2, point 1) were always negative. After July 15, when chlorine was added to the tank, the level of contamination of tap water inside the resort steadily decreased; no contamination was detectable after superchlorination on July 22.