Outbreaks of water-borne gastroenteritis and dysentery are relatively rare in Britain, yet many of the smaller water supplies in which water polluted with sewage is purified for domestic consumption are vulnerable to a breakdown in the purification process. An example of such a breakdown occurred at Montrose, a seaside town (population 10,800) situated 30 miles to the north-east of Dundee (population 185,000) in the County of Angus, Scotland. On the evening of 18 August 1966 the general practitioners in Montrose received many calls to attend patients suffering from vomiting or diarrhoea or both these symptoms. Adults and children over 1 year of age were affected throughout the town and the cases were confined mainly to the town. A measure of the prevalence of the illness is seen in the fact that half of the night staff of a large canning factory failed to attend for work. On the following morning (19 August) one-quarter of the schoolchildren attending the three main schools were absent. The major wave of new calls to practitioners occurred on 19 and 20 August. There were no deaths in the outbreak. In one practice (population 4000) the number of new patients with diarrhoea or vomiting seen on the 6 days preceding the outbreak (13-18 August) were 0, 0, 3, 0, 1 and 2, and the numbers on the days 19-23 August were 49, 30, 3, 12 and 1. It is estimated that 40-50 % of the population of Montrose was affected. In forty families visited routinely by health visitors on 22 August, 44 (27 adults and 17 children) out of 109 persons had been ill. In September, 553 food handlers were interviewed and 37 % gave a history of having had gastro-enteritis in the period 18-21 August and a further 8 % reported having been ill between 22 and 27 August. The symptoms were colicky abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, headache, general malaise and diarrhoea. Many patients had limb pains and a few were pyrexial. Two or three collapsed, with transient loss of consciousness. In those becoming ill during the first 24 hr. of the outbreak the predominant symptom was projectile vomiting, e.g. five or six episodes in as many hours, and one or two loose stools were passed during or just after the vomiting. In patients becoming ill later in the outbreak, diarrhoea was the principal feature and there was little or no vomiting. Epigastric tenderness was present in all patients seen by one practitioner. Blood and mucus were present in the faeces of only a few patients. The widespread distribution of the cases led to the water supply being suspected as the vehicle of infection. Cases of the illness occurred throughout Montrose and in certain premises outside Montrose which were supplied with water from the Montrose main. Gastroenteritis did not occur, except in a few individuals who had visited Montrose, among the inhabitants of the nearby villages of Hillside and Ferryden, which depend on Montrose for food and milk but have a different water supply. On 19 August, within 24 hr. of the start of the outbreak, the amount of free chlorine in a sample taken from a tap in the Burgh office was less than 0.1 p.p.m. and instructions were issued for the dose of chlorine to be increased to 1 p.p.m. Samples of water taken at 2 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. on the same day from taps at two other points in the town were graded unsatisfactory on bacteriological examination; their confirmed Escherichia coli counts were > 180 and 90 per 100 ml. water. Samples taken on the following days were satisfactory, reflecting the effect of the increased dosage of chlorine. The chlorination plant was examined some days later and a defect was found in the automatic switching gear which changes the supply of chlorine from an emptied cylinder to a standby full one. This defect allowed some chlorine to pass from the full to the empty cylinder, so that the whole of the calculated dose of chlorine did not pass into the water. No information could be obtained to show exactly when the breakdown took place but the unsatisfactory bacteriological findings on the water samples collected on 19 August demonstrated that the purification process had been inadequate for a period before the time of testing. In addition to the breakdown of chlorination, spates had occurred on 6, 10 and 14 August and the flood waters may have contributed to the failure of the process.