A waterborne epidemic took place in a Finnish municipality in April 1994. Some 1500-3000 people, i.e. 25-50% of the population, had symptomatic acute gastroenteritis. Laboratory findings confirmed adenovirus, a Norwalk-like agent, small round viruses (SRV), and group A and C rotaviruses as causative agents, Norwalk virus being the main cause of the outbreak. The epidemic was most probably associated with contaminated drinking water. The groundwater well, situated in the embankment of a river, was contaminated by polluted river water during the spring flood. A back flow from the river to the well had occurred via a forgotten drainage pipe. The first patients became ill on April 11, 1994. The next day, another 37 persons contacted the health care centre reporting symptoms of gastroenteritis. Typical symptoms were abdominal pain, severe vomiting, in some cases high fever, headache, and diarrhoea. The duration of symptoms was usually 2-3 days. A few patients suffered from prolonged diarrhoea. Horizontal spreading (secondary infections) was also observed among those who had not used the contaminated water. About 1000 people became ill during the first week: school children first, then adults and the elderly. School absence (Fig. 1) during the first week varied from 8 to 31%, compared to the annual mean of 4.5%. The incidence rate in a home for the elderly was 90%. The epidemic was over in 3 weeks. About half of the population, i.e. up to 2500 people, was estimated to have had symptomatic gastroenteritis. In routine bacteriological examinations, coliform bacteria were found both in raw water and in tap water indicating faecal contamination. Efforts to restrict the outbreak included, among others, informing the population, boiling drinking water and shock chlorination (freely available chlorine 10 mg/l) of the water pipes. Clean drinking water was delivered by fire trucks. Water samples were tested bacteriologically for coliforms, E. coli, Salmonella, Campylobacterium and Yersinia. One water sample was analysed virologically by using concentration, electron microscopy and cell cultures (GMK, A549 and RD cell lines). A sample of 20 1 tap water was first concentrated with Minitan-system (Millipore), continued with a two-phase concentration. Examination of river, as well as tap water, showed E. coli (10- 160 CFU/l) and other coliforms indicating faecal contamination of the water source. Analyses for Salmonella, Campylobacterium and Yersinia were negative. No virus was detected in the water sample.