In an outbreak of enteritis affecting about 2000 people in central Sweden Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from the faeces of 221 of 263 patients whose stools were cultured. Among the patients who consulted general practitioners the highest attack rate was in children under five years old but a sample survey of the community showed that all age groups were equally affected. There was strong circumstantial evidence pointing to tap water as the source of the infection, although this was not bacteriologically confirmed. This is only the second major waterborne outbreak of campylobacter enteritis that has been reported. During the first two weeks of October, 1980, over 380 people with diarrhoea consulted general practitioners in Grums, a community 30 km west of Karlstad in central Sweden. Another community, Valberg, situated nearer Karlstad, was also affected but to a lesser extent. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from the faeces of 221 of 263 patients for whom cultures were done. 45 specimens were also cultured for Salmonella and Shigella, -with negative results. Only a small proportion of people who fall ill seek medical aid\u2019 and I suspected that the epidemic involved many more people than the 380 who had consulted their doctors. A random sample of the population in the epidemic area was interviewed by post and on the telephone. This survey suggested that 2085 people had been ill (table I), this estimate being accurate to within 300. 7 patients, 1 of them a child, were admitted to hospital, mainly for diarrhoea combined with social reasons. Of 6 patients with complications 4 had arthralgia of about two weeks duration and another 2 had arthritic symptoms that lasted for more than four months. The main pipe-borne water supply in the area is deep ground water of good quality from two wells. It is filtered through sand and distributed unchlorinated. Routine bacteriological testing of the water one week before the outbreak was satisfactory. The total coliform count (most probable number procedure) was 10/1 and total heterotrophic bacteria (22&deg;C, 48 h incubation) 10 000/1. On Oct. 9 the corresponding findings were 0-50 coliforms/l and 0 to 90 000 heterotrophic bacteria/l in different parts of the water supply system. However, interviews indicated that the infection was spread via the mains supply. Several nonresidents, who had consumed nothing but water or heated food and water during their visit to Grums, were affected. Of 23 affected infants 22 had been fed baby food mixed with water heated to no more than body temperature.