The objective of this study is to describe an important waterborne outbreak of gastrointestinal illness observed in a rural municipality of Quebec. Methods A population-based retrospective cohort study was conducted to identify risk factors associated with acute gastroenteritis. Indirect surveillance data were used to estimate the extent and the resolution of the epidemic. Results The cohort consisted of 140 randomly selected individuals of who met the illness case definition (15.7% attack rate). The epidemic curve was similar to the evolution of antidiarrheal products sold by the only pharmacy in town and calls made to the Health Info Line. Bivariate analysis led to identifying five risk factors of gastrointestinal illness: consumption of municipal water, contact with someone with acute gastroenteritis (within and outside of the household), contact with a child in daycare, and being less than 35 years of age. Drinking municipal water had the highest risk ratio (RR = 24.31; 95%CI = 1.50-393.4). Drinking water from a private artesian well was a protective factor (RR = 0.28; 95% CI = 0.09-0.90). Conclusion This study highlighted that managing the risks associated with the consumption of untreated drinking water remains an important public health challenge, particularly in small rural municipalities vulnerable to climate variability. This article presents the results of an investigation related to an AGE outbreak that occurred in the summer of 2018 in a small rural municipality (municipality A) located in the province of Quebec. The outbreak was identified by an unusual number of campylobacteriosis cases reported to the Regional Public Health Department (RPHD). The first investigations suggested a waterborne transmission of the infection. However, as the water tests did not reveal the presence of Campylobacter, a decision was made to conduct a more comprehensive epidemiological investigation to identify the source of the outbreak, ensure control, and prevent future relapses. The drinking water distribution system in this community serves a population of 800 people in the downtown sector (an urban-agro-industrial area) and is supplied by unfiltered and unchlorinated groundwater (five wells and one main surface water tank). The rest of the population gets their water from private artesian wells. Therefore, on July 17, 2018, a boil-water advisory was issued for municipality A. A case was defined as a resident (visitors were excluded) present in municipality A between June 23 and July 22, 2018, having reported acute gastrointestinal clinical manifestations with at least two of the following signs or symptoms: diarrhea, abdominal cramps, fever, nausea, and/or vomiting. Escherichia coli and/or enterococci, as well as total coliforms, were detected in 6 of the 10 water samples taken between July 26 and 28 (CDC week 30). Five of the 6 contaminated samples were located on the distribution system near the main water tank. The 40 samples taken subsequently, from August 8 to September 12, did not reveal any fecal contamination. Campylobacter was not detected in any sample of the distributed or raw water supply.