In August 1998, an outbreak of campylobacteriosis occurred in one municipality in northern Finland. A 10% random sample of residents (population 15 000) was selected through the National Population Registry for a survey conducted by using postal questionnaires. Cases were defined as residents of the municipality with onset of acute gastroenteritis from 1 to 20 August 1998. Of 1167 respondents (response rate 78%), 218 (18.7%) met the case definition. Drinking non-chlorinated municipal tap water was strongly associated with illness (OR 34.4). The estimated total number of ill persons was 2700. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from stool samples of 45 (61%) out of 74 patients tested. All five isolates tested had indistinguishable PFGE patterns. Water samples were negative for campylobacter and coliforms. Epidemiological and environmental evidence suggested mains repair as the source of contamination. Non-chlorinated ground-water systems may be susceptible to contamination and can cause large outbreaks. Municipality A (population approximately 15 000) is located in northern Finland, 20 km north of the city of Oulu. Practically all (99%) residents receive drinking water from the non-chlorinated municipal water supply. On Monday 10 August, the National Public Health Institute (KTL) was notified that during the weekend of 7\u20138 August 1998, approximately 50 persons had sought care at the municipal health centre because of gastrointestinal symptoms. On 11 August, C. jejuni was isolated from stool samples of 15 patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. The wide geographical distribution of cases and preliminary interviews with patients suggested drinking water as the source of the outbreak. A boil-water notice was, therefore, issued on 11 August, and chlorination of water began on 13 August. Case finding and descriptive epidemiology A public health nurse recorded on a line list all persons who contacted the municipal health centre because of gastrointestinal symptoms with onset of symptoms from 1 to 20 August. In addition to demographic data and place of residence, information was collected about symptoms and illness onset. Based on these preliminary data, the outbreak was rapidly characterized by age, sex and geography. Fifteen patients were thoroughly interviewed by using a standard questionnaire to generate hypotheses about the source of the outbreak. Population survey For the questionnaire study, we selected a 10% random sample of all Municipality A residents aged 15 years and older from the National Population Registry. A case was defined as a resident of Municipality A with diarrhoea (three or more stools during 24 h) or at least two of the following symptoms: fever, abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea; and illness onset from 1 to 20 August. The questionnaire was mailed to participants on 26 August. They were asked about onset and symptoms of gastrointestinal illness and use of health services. Information about consumption of tap water, private well water and bottled water, as well as exposure to mass catering, restaurant foods and poultry between 25 July and 7 August was also collected. To determine the occurrence of post-infectious complications after an outbreak of gastroenteritis, a second questionnaire was mailed on 30 September 1998 to persons who reported new joint or musculoskeletal symptoms after gastroenteritis in the population survey (n=101) and to persons who contacted the municipal health centre because of new joint or musculoskeletal symptoms after gastroenteritis from 1 August to 15 September 1998 (n=13). Participants were asked about onset and duration of musculoskeletal symptoms, which joints were affected, use of health services and treatment for musculoskeletal symptoms. Probable reactive arthritis was defined as a new joint symptom, including arthralgia, redness, and/or swelling in one or more joints within 1 month of gastroenteritis [18]. Laboratory investigation of patients: Stool specimens were collected from 74 patients who had gastrointestinal symptoms. Twenty-six (35%) specimens were analysed for the presence of Salmonella, Shigella, Yersinia, Campylobacter, Aeromonas and Plesiomonas spp. as well as Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus cereus and Clostridium perfringens by routine bacteriological methods. The remaining 48 (65%) specimens were cultured for Campylobacter sp. only. For campylobacters, the samples were cultured on Campylobacter blood free selective medium (modified charcoal cefoperazone deoxycholate agar [19], LABM, Lancashire, UK). Growth was confirmed as C. jejuni by Gram stain, catalase and hippurate test. In addition, the primary stool cultures of six patients were investigated for enteropathogenic (EPEC) and enteroaggregative (EAEC) Escherichia coli by PCR as described previously [20]. Ten specimens were investigated for Cryptosporidium and Cyclospora spp. and 20 specimens for noroviruses by RT\u2013PCR. Environmental investigation: The municipal water supply was inspected on 12 and 27 August by local authorities in collaboration with the Department of Environmental Health and the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology of KTL. Water samples were collected from groundwater wells, a water reservoir and households for microbiological investigation. The first sample collected on 8 August was investigated for coliforms. Subsequent samples of municipal water were collected on 11\u201313 August and tested for coliforms and campylobacters. Samples taken on 12 August were also investigated for the presence of noroviruses and parasites. In addition, 100-g samples taken from different parts of the filter material used to reduce the iron content of ground water were studied for campylobacters by enrichment and coliforms. The water samples were studied for coliforms on LES Endo medium. The filter material was studied at a dilution of 10x1 on Violet Red bile agar (VRB). For campylobacters, water samples of 350\u20134000 ml volume were filtered through membranes with 0.45 mm pore size and the filters were enriched in Bolton enrichment broth at 37 xC for 24 and 48 h in a microaerobic atmosphere and cultured [22]. A total of 442 persons with gastroenteritis with illness onset from 1 to 20 August, contacted the health centre. All age groups were affected and the median age was 39 years (range 1-89 years) ; 52% were men. C. jejuni was isolated from 45 (61%) of the 74 stool samples tested. All strains were susceptible to erythromycin and ciprofloxacin. All five strains analysed further by PFGE showed an indistinguishable PFGE pattern (Fig. 1). No other pathogens were detected in patient samples.