Increased domestic, laboratory confirmed, Campylobacter notifications were reported in Soderhamn municipality, December 2002 and January 2003. Concurrently, during preliminary investigations a large outbreak of acute gastroenteritis was detected. Simultaneously, two studies were completed to identify risk factors for infection with Campylobacter and acute gastrointestinal infection (AGI): (1) a case-cohort study using Campylobacter cases (N=101) with a large random sample from the municipal population as referents (N=1000) and (2) a retrospective cohort study for the outcome AGI using the same sample. A postal questionnaire was used to collect demographic, clinical, water and food consumption data. Measures of association (risk ratio (RR), odds ratio (OR)) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Stool, environmental and water samples were tested by standard methods at Gavle Hospital and SMI laboratories respectively. In the case-cohort study, Camplylobacter cases were more likely than referents to consume communal water (OR \u00bc 12.6 (95% CI 1.7-92.3)). In the cohort study, risk of gastroenteritis was 2.3 times higher in those who consumed water (AR = 27.3%) than others (AR = 12%). Risk of illness was associated with the amount of water consumed in both studies. Campylobacter was detected in stools and Escherichia coli (E. coli) from routine communal water (CW) samples. Results suggest both Soderhamn outbreaks of Campylobacter and AGI were associated with consumption of CW. The method used strengthened epidemiological evidence and was efficient in the use of time and resources. In January, 2003, the County Medical Officer (CMO) for Gavleborg noticed an increased incidence of domestic, laboratory confirmed cases of Campylobacter in the municipality of Soderhamn. At the same time cases of acute gastroenteritis infection (AGI) were reported in the community. In order to identify the sources, modes of transmission and vehicles for the outbreak, the Swedish Institute for Infectious Disease Control (SMI) was invited to take part in the investigation along with the Environmental Health Protection Board at S\u00f6derhamn. An initial rapid assessment based on 750 telephone interviews indicated that 24% of the population self-reported AGI, potentially affecting some 6-7000 members of the population. The water supply was suspected as the source of the outbreak for the following three reasons. 1. There had been a previous waterborne outbreak in the municipality at a similar time of year (Sandarne, November 1998). 2. A contaminated routine well water sample with one E. coli had been analysed two weeks prior to our arrival (15 January 2003). 3. It was felt that the 24% attack rate of self-reported AGI in the community, and the increased reported cases of Campylobacter, were probably associated and that more than one pathogen may be involved. As water supplies were suspected to be at the origin of both outbreaks (Campylobacter and AGI), preliminary and immediate measures of intervention included: intensification of water sampling; chlorination of the water supplies of the municipality; and holding a press conference to inform the population. No advice on boiling water was issued. The epidemic curve extends from 1 December 2002 until 28 January 2003, a duration of 59 days. We thus found two simultaneous outbreaks, which may overlap to some extent. One was the outbreak of verified Campylobacter infections, while the second was the larger outbreak of self-reported acute intestinal illness. Since most of the patients in the latter outbreak were not tested for Campylobacter, there may well have been unidentified Campylobacter cases in this group as well. Two epidemiological investigations were simultaneously completed to identify the role of the water supply and other risk factors in both outbreaks: a case-cohort study, using laboratory reported cases of Campylobacter infection and a large random sample of the community as referents, and - using the same random community sample - a retrospective cohort study to identify the risk factors for self-diagnosed AGI. A case of Campylobacter infection was defined as a person living in the Soderhamn municipality during December 2002 and January 2003 with laboratory verified Campylobacter, grown from a stool sample, using standard methods laid down by The Swedish Institute of Infectious Disease Control (SMI) (Referensmetodik 2002). Cases were identified from the laboratory notifications. The reference cohort consisted of 1000 residents randomly selected from the municipal population register of Soderhamn. Information requested from cases and referents by postal questionnaire included demography, clinical signs and symptoms, food outlets, food items and type and amount of water consumed. Cohort study The expected high incidence of AGI in the population allowed us to use the random sample of 1000 controls in the previous study as a retrospective cohort. The same questionnaire was used as the case-cohort study, with the objective of assessing if water consumption was also the vehicle of transmission for the concomitant outbreak of AGI. The expected high incidence of AGI in the population allowed us to use the random sample of 1000 controls in the previous study as a retrospective cohort. The same questionnaire was used as the case-cohort study, with the objective of assessing if water consumption was also the vehicle of transmission for the concomitant outbreak of AGI. A case was defined as a person living in the S\u00f6derhamn municipality during December 2002 and January 2003 with self-diagnosed AGI. Attack rates of AGI were compared by the amount of water consumed. The chi squared value for trend was used.