Background: We describe the investigation of a Campylobacter outbreak linked to contamination of an untreated, groundwater derived drinking water supply. Methods: We analysed epidemiological data collected from clinician-confirmed diarrheal cases and estimated the total burden of Havelock North cases using an age-adjusted cross-sectional telephone survey. Campylobacter isolates from case fecal specimens, groundwater samples, and sheep fecal specimens from paddocks adjacent to the drinking water source were whole genome sequenced. Findings: We estimate between 6260 and 8320 cases of illness including up to 2230 who lived outside the reticulation area, were linked to the contaminated water supply. Of these, 953 cases were physician reported, 42 were hospitalized, three developed Guillain-Barr\u00e9syndrome, and Campylobacter infection contributed to at least four deaths. Of the 12 genotypes observed in cases, four were also observed in water, three were also observed in sheep and one was also observed in both water and sheep. Interpretation: The contamination of the untreated reticulated water supply occurred following a very heavy rainfall event which caused drainage of sheep feces into a shallow aquifer. The existence of a routine clinical surveillance system for campylobacteriosis facilitated identification of the outbreak, recovery of clinical isolates, and early testing of the water for pathogens. Genotyping of the Campylobacter jejuni helped define the source of the outbreak and confirm outbreak periods and cases. Expected increases in heavy rainfall events and intensification of agriculture mean that additional safeguards are needed to protect populations from such drinking water outbreaks. In August 2016 the town of Havelock North, in New Zealand, had an unchlorinated reticulated water system supplying 14,118 residents. Within 30 miles (50 km) are the neighbouring cities of Hastings (population \u223c64,000) and Napier (population \u223c61,100), which together with other small rural communities (totalling an- other \u223c15,000) comprise the Hawke's Bay District Health Board catchment area. On 12 August 2016 the Health Board was alerted to an increase in people with diarrheal illness presenting to the Hawke's Bay Hospital, elevated campylobacteriosis notifications from the region and an increase in school absenteeism. Routine microbiological testing from the Havelock North reticulated water supply taken on 11 August was positive for E. coli . Heavy rainfall of 6 \u00b75 inches (165 mm) during 5-6 August was suspected to have contributed to the contamination of the water supply. The water supplier (Hastings District Council) responded the same day by is- suing a 'boil water notice' and initiating chlorination of the Havelock North reticulated water supply. A probable campylobacteriosis case was defined as an individual who consumed Havelock North reticulated water between 5 and12 August 2016 with clinician-confirmed diarrhea between 7 and 24 August 2016. A confirmed campylobacteriosis case was the same as a probable campylobacteriosis case but with a fecal specimen positive for Campylobacter spp. Together these probable and confirmed cases are, in this paper, referred to as outbreak cases. Unlinked cases in this paper resided in the Hawke's Bay, and meet requirements to be a confirmed or probable case except that they did not report the consumption of Havelock North reticulated water. The duration of the outbreak was defined as the period when the daily count rate of notified Campylobacter infections in Hawke's Bay was greater than a threshold value calculated as the mean plus two standard deviations of three years of daily count data. The three years\u2019 data closely fitted a Poisson distribution from which the mean was calculated. During the initial phase of the outbreak (7-16 August) clinicians were encouraged to collect fecal specimens for probable cases to identify pathogens contributing to the outbreak. On confirmation of Campylobacter spp. as the likely etiologic pathogen, routine surveillance was modified. Sentinel surveillance in two primary care practices serving Havelock North and adjacent areas re- placed the usual testing practices for gastroenteritis cases. Fecal specimens were collected from the first seven patients meeting the case definition twice weekly during 17 August to 9 September 2016. To estimate the proportion of households and residents affected by the outbreak, a cross-sectional study of Havelock North residents was also conducted by randomly surveying 660 households supplied by the Havelock North reticulated water system (con- ducted as three rounds of telephone surveys using the same panel of households, with the last survey on the 22 August). A case was defined as a resident of Havelock North with exposure to the Have- lock North reticulated water supply during 5-12 August who developed diarrheal disease during 7-22 August. Results were age- adjusted to the population of Havelock North. Testing of four Havelock North reticulated water samples, and the bores sampled on 12 August found total coliforms of 30-110 MPN/100 mL and E. coli of 10-23 MPN/100 mL. All four reticulated water samples and one of the bore water samples were positive for C. jejuni. Following chlorination of the water supply on the 12 August, free available chlorine levels of 1 ppm were confirmed on 13 August. C. jejuni were isolated from 12 of 16 sheep fecal samples collected from paddocks adjacent to the bores. Reported rates of campylobacteriosis are typically higher in males, in those aged between 20 and 29, and children less than 5 years of age. In this outbreak, reported rates did not show this pattern, perhaps reflecting the indiscriminate nature of drinking water exposure. Rates were disproportionately high among those aged over 60, which we attribute to underlying susceptibility in this age group , and the use of active case finding targeted to older residents.