In March 2012, there was an unusual increase of gastroenteritis cases in a district with 37 264 inhabitants in central Greece. It was estimated that more than 3600 people developed symptoms. A 1:1 case-control study showed that consumption of tap water was a risk factor for acquiring infection [odds ratio (OR) 2.18, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.11-4.28]. Descriptive data, low gastroenteritis incidence in adjacent areas with different water supply systems, 
  and water-quality data further supported the hypothesis of a waterborne outbreak. Thirty-eight stool samples were positive for rotavirus. Bacterial indicators of recent faecal contamination were detected in samples from the water source and ice cubes from a local production enterprise. Molecular epidemiology of rotavirus strains, apart from  the common strain, G3[P8], identified the unusual G/P combination G2P[8]. Water sanitation measures contributed to the control of the outbreak. This outbreak demonstrated the need for the cooperation of laboratories with different expertise and the importance of early notification of waterborne 
  gastroenteritis outbreaks. On 14 March 2012, the Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention (HCDCP) was informed by the Health Care Centre (HCC) of Elassona about an unusual increase of gastroenteritis cases since 10 March. Most cases were residents of Elassona, a district in central Greece with 37 264 inhabitants. The city of Elassona (7233 inhabitants) and 5/52 villages of the district (1337 inhabitants) are served by the same water supply system, while the rest of 
  the villages utilize autonomous systems (Fig. 1). The altitude of Elassona is 311m and its geography includes farmlands in the valley areas, mountains to the west and east and forests in the west and east as well as grasslands. A river flows through Elassona and divides the town into two parts, which are connected by four bridges. The main hypothesis formulated was that this was a WBO as there was heavy rainfall in the region the week before the onset of the gastroenteritis cases and several patients had reported that the water during the same period was coloured. In addition, cases were distributed in both parts of the town and similar outbreaks had occurred in the past during spring after heavy rains. The HCDCP decided to further investigate the outbreak in collaboration with the local public health authorities. The objectives of the investigation were the identification of the mode and vehicle of transmission, as well as of possible risk factors, in order to implement appropriate control measures. METHODS Descriptive epidemiology and estimation of the extent of the outbreak An active case-finding was initiated and medical doctors of Elassona HCC were requested to provide the total number of gastroenteritis cases from Elassona district they had treated since the 1 March and their demographic characteristics. \u0399nformation on the place of residence and the date of symptom onset was also collected. To assess the extent of the outbreak more than 200 houses, distributed throughout the region, were visited. The total number of people living in each house and the number of persons that had developed gastroenteritis were recorded and the attack rate was estimated. Finally, information on absence from schools (elementary and high schools) of Elassona and Tsaritsani, an adjacent city with 2507 residents that has a different water supply system, was collected. It should be noted that by the time the outbreak was notified, pre-schools/nurseries had already been closed because of the increased number of ill children. This is actually indicative of the high attack rate in toddlers. Environmental investigation and water sampling The spring water source of the supply system of Elassona is situated in a valley, 
  7 km north of the city, crossed by a river. The water of the river is in contact with the walls of the cement reservoir tank in which water from the source is gathered. In the basin of the river, several animal breeding farms (goats, sheep, cows, pigs) and houses are located. The spring water is transferred from the reservoir tank to a tank in the city, where chlorination takes place before distribution. Self-assessment microbiological tests are conducted by the municipality 
  water authority on a monthly basis according to national legislation of water intended for human consumption (KYA Y2/38295/2007 \u03a6EK 630/26-4-2007). Almost 
  half of the houses in Elassona are served by the public sewage system. Cases originated from houses with public or private systems. The public water supply system was inspected on 16 of March by the Regional Public Health Laboratory (RPHL) of Thessaly. On 16 March, health inspectors of RPHL of Thessaly collected six water samples \u2013 three for microbiological analysis and three for chemical analysis \u2013 from the source, the tank and tap watrer and placed a filter at the source (Gelman, Germany), for Cryptosporidium detection. Water samples were also collected on 6 April (n=4) and 11 April (n=4) after heavy rainfall, both from 
  the tank and the source for microbiological and chemical analysis. A case-control study with 1:2 ratio was designed. Since most of the cases were residents of Elassona, it was decided that the study population should be restricted to the residents of the city. A probable gastroenteritis case was defined as any resident of Elassona that presented: (a) acute diarrhoea (three or more episodes) or (b) vomiting and one or more episodes of loose stools in a 24-h period between 6 and 17 March and a confirmed case as a probable case that was laboratory confirmed. Between 6 March and 1 April 2012, 552 cases were recorded at Elassona HCC. Of 
  these, 341 were residents of the city of Elassona [attack rate (AR) 341/7233=4.7%], 53 were residents of adjacent villages with the same water supply system (AR: 53/1337=4\u00b70%) and 158 were from villages with a different water supply system (AR 158/28 694=0\u00b76%).