Background: On 7 May 2007 the medical officer in R\u00f8ros (population 5600) reported 15 patients with gastroenteritis. Three days later he estimated hundreds being ill. Untreated tap water from a groundwater source was suspected as the vehicle and chlorination was started 11 May. Campylobacter was isolated from patients' stool samples. We conducted an investigation to identify the source and describe the extent of the outbreak. Methods: We undertook a retrospective cohort study among a random sample of customers of R\u00f8ros and neighbouring Holt\u00e5len waterworks. Holt\u00e5len, which has a different water source, was used as a control city. We conducted telephone interviews to gather data on illness from all household members. One randomly selected household member was asked about detailed exposure history. The regional hospital laboratory tested patients' stools for enteropathogens. Campylobacter isolates were typed by AFLP for genetic similarity at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health. Local authorities conducted the environmental investigation. Results: We identified 105 
  cases among 340 individuals from R\u00f8ros and Holt\u00e5len (Attack Rate = 31%). Tap water consumption was the only exposure associated with illness. Among randomly selected household members from R\u00f8ros, a dose-response relationship was observed in daily consumed glasses of tap water (\u03c72 for trend = 8.1, p 
  = 0.004). Campylobacter with identical AFLP was isolated from 25 out of 26 submitted stool samples. No pathogens were detected in water samples. We identified several events that might have caused pressure fall and influx of contaminated water into the water distribution system. On two occasions, pressure fall was noticed and parts of the distribution system were outdated. Conclusion: The investigation confirmed a waterborne outbreak of campylobacteriosis in R\u00f8ros. Although no single event was identified as the cause of contamination, this outbreak illustrates the vulnerability of water distribution systems. Good quality source water alone is not enough to ensure water safety. For a better risk management, more focus should be put on the distribution system security. Waterworks personnel should monitor the pressure regularly; reduce the leakage by upgrading the distribution network and use chlorination when conducting maintenance work. On Monday 7 May 2007, the municipal medical officer in R\u00f8ros notified the Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH) about 10 patients with gastroenteritis who had consulted R\u00f8ros municipal health centre during the weekend. R\u00f8ros is a small town, situated in mid-Norway. Its municipality has 5600 inhabitants. According to the medical officer, the estimated number of cases rose to a few hundreds in the three following days, and tap water was suspected to be the vehicle of infection. Five patients' stool samples were positive for Campylobacter spp. A case was defined as a person living in R\u00f8ros or Holt\u00e5len municipality with diarrhoea (passing three or more loose stools in one day) from 1 to 14 May 2007 OR experiencing at least two of the following symptoms of acute gastroenteritis lasting at least two days in the same time period: nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps or pain, flatulence, blood in the stool and fever. We excluded those who recently travelled abroad, those with unknown date of gastroenteritis symptoms onset and those whose illness started before 1 May 2007 from the analysis. To rapidly assess the attack rate in the different supply zones (RH and RL), we phoned and asked 11 institutions (six kindergartens and five nursing homes) about the occurrence of gastroenteritis among the employees or children/residents. We assumed children and residents in the institutions to be less mobile and therefore more likely to be exposed to tap water from only one of the two supply zones. Stool samples were collected from some of the symptomatic patients at R\u00f8ros and Holt\u00e5len municipal health centres. Culture and biochemical identification of bacterial enteropathogens were done according to standard microbiological methods at St. Olavs Hospital in Trondheim [14,15]. The specimens were cultured for Salmonella, Shigella and Yersinia. The specimens were further cultured 
  for Campylobacter on charcoal cefoperazone desoxycholate agar (Mast Diagnostics, Merseyside, UK) in a microaerophilic atmosphere at 42\u00b0C for two days. Typical colonies including oxidase positive, hippurate positive, motile short rods were identified as Campylobacter jejuni. The Campylobacter isolates were sent to 
  the NIPH for genotyping using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP)[16,17]. The samples were also tested for adenovirus, rotavirus, norovirus, astrovirus, Giardia lamblia and Clostridium difficile toxin A/B using enzyme immuno assay or polymerase chain reaction [18,19]. Microscopy for Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts on previously frozen samples was done at the Norwegian School of Veterinary Science. Waterworks personnel take weekly routine water samples from seven different locations in R\u00f8ros according to their risk assessment strategy. Weekly samples are tested for total bacterial count, coliform bacteria, turbidity and colour. Quarterly samples are additionally tested for intestinal enterococci, pH and conductivity. All tests are performed according to the standard methods described in the national legislation for waterworks [20]. During the outbreak, the waterworks personnel took additional samples from different locations in the water distribution system. Samples taken on 11 May were additionally tested for Campylobacter according to the national standard method (NS-ISO 17995). The local Food Safety Authority and the waterworks personnel thoroughly inspected the R\u00f8ros waterworks, including the wells, the reservoirs and the distribution system. They assessed recent maintenance work and events which could have caused contamination. The age and gender distribution of the household members included in the cohort were similar to the general population in R\u00f8ros and Holt\u00e5len. Women represented 51% of the household members and 56% of the cases. The median age of the 340 household members was 44 years (range 0-94). The median age of the cases was 40 years (range 0-85). The majority of cases presented with diarrhoea (90%, 95/105); two of them reported blood in the stool. Among the ten cases not reporting diarrhoea, all reported stomach cramps or pain and one or more of the following symptoms: flatulence (7/10), fever (6/10), headache (3/10) and nausea (2/10). In 81 (77%) of the cases, the symptoms lasted three days or more; mean and median duration was five days (range 1\u201314 days). Diarrhoea (90%) and stomach cramps (77%) were the most prevalent symptoms, followed by fever (48%). Nine cases (9%) reported vomiting and six (6%) consulted a physician. Among the 101 selected household members, the risk of illness increased with the amount of daily consumed tap water (\u03c72 for linear trend = 8.1; p = 0.004, Figure 3). No other common exposures were associated with gastrointestinal 
  disease. A total of 23 selected household members (23%) reported noticing water abnormalities, at different days and hours during the study time.