From 1 January through 30 June 1997, 8901 cases of typhoid fever and 95 associated deaths were reported in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Of 29 Salmonella serotype Typhi isolates tested, 27 (93%) were resistant to ampicillin, chloramphenicol, nalidixic acid, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. In a case-control study of 45 patients and 123 controls, Salmonella Typhi infection was associated with drinking unboiled water (matched odds ratio, 7; 95% confidence interval, 3-24; P ! .001). Of tap water samples, 97% showed fecal coliform contamination (mean level, 175 cfu/100 mL). Samples taken from water treatment plants revealed that fecal coliform contamination occurred both before and after treatment. Lack of chlorination, equipment failure, and back-siphonage in the water distribution system led to contamination of drinking water. After chlorination and coagulation were begun at the treatment plants and a water conservation campaign was initiated to improve water pressure, the incidence of typhoid fever declined dramatically. In mid-1996, an epidemic of typhoid fever began in southern Tajikistan [1]. By February 1997, the epidemic had reached Dushanbe, where 2200 cases of typhoid fever were reported during a 2-week period. Central governmental edict required a minimum 25-day hospitalization of patients with typhoid fever; hospitals in Dushanbe were filled to capacity and most accepted only patients with typhoid fever. Initial laboratory reports indicated that the epidemic strain of Salmonella serotype Typhi (formerly S. typhi) was resistant to most commonly prescribed antibiotics for typhoid fever treatment. The Ministry of Health advised that all drinking water be boiled, and the city government prohibited street vending of food and beverages. However, there remained considerable debate about the cause of the epidemic and appropriate control measures. Case-control study. On 22 March 1997, detailed hypothesis generating interviews to detect common exposures were conducted with 4 patients with blood culture-confirmed Salmonella Typhi infection. Exposures common to these patients or known to be risk factors from previous large outbreaks of typhoid fever were included in a questionnaire for a case-control study. From 24 March through 7 April 1997, patients were recruited to participate in the study from two hospitals in Dushanbe. A case was defined as symptoms and signs consistent with typhoid fever in a Dushanbe resident with Salmonella Typhi infection confirmed by blood or stool culture. If >1 patient from the same household had Salmonella Typhi infection, only illness in the patient with the earliest date of symptom onset was included as a case. Patients were interviewed within 5 days of hospital admission by a trained interviewer using a standard questionnaire. Questions focused on potential risk exposures during the 30 days before symptom onset. Laboratory investigation. Blood and stool samples from patients  with suspected typhoid fever at two Dushanbe hospitals were examined for Salmonella Typhi by standard methods [7]. Patients with Salmonella isolates confirmed as Salmonella Typhi were enrolled in the case-control study. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing using the disk diffusion method [8] was performed on 29 SalmonellaTyphi isolates obtained during routine surveillance from patients at hospitals throughout Dushanbe. Twelve antimicrobial agents were evaluated: amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, gentamicin, kanamycin, and nalidixic acid. MICs of nalidixic acid and ciprofloxacin were determined for 4 isolates by Etest (AB Biodisk, Piscataway, NJ). Water quality testing. A portable water testing kit (Oxfam-DelAgua, Guildford, UK) was used for microbiologic analysis. Water was collected in sterile polypropylene bottles, and 50-mL samples were filtered through 0.45-mm, 47-mm diameter, cellulose nitrate filters. Each filter was transferred to 60-mm petri plates containing laurel tryptose broth medium on Gelman absorbent pads. The samples were incubated at 44.57C for 18 h. Assessment of water treatment plants. At the surface water treatment plants, turbidity was measured following each stage of the treatment process, and samples were obtained for microbiologic analysis at the inflow and outflow of the facilities. Only finished water samples were taken from the two groundwater facilities. Typhoid fever surveillance. From 1 January 1996 through 30 June 1997, 10,677 cases of typhoid fever and 108 deaths (1.0%) were reported in Dushanbe; 8901 (83%) of these cases and 95 deaths (88%) occurred during the first half of 1997 (figure 2). The median age of patients was 16 years (range, >1-80); 51% were male. The median time from onset of symptoms to hospitalization was 6 days. The mortality rate was lowest among patients !10 years old (8 [0.3%] of 2303) and highest among those 139 years old (9 [1.4%] of 631). Water treatment plant evaluations. Both surface water treatment plants used sedimentation and filtration to treat river water. Algae were growing in the silt-filled sedimentation basins. At one plant, the turbidity of the water taken before treatment was 7 turbidity units (JTU); after treatment it was 15 JTU (indicating a decrease in water clarity after treatment); fecal coliforms decreased from 440 to 132 cfu/100 mL. At the other plant, the turbidity of the source water was 27 JTU, which decreased after treatment to 7 JTU; fecal coliforms decreased from 460 to 118 cfu/100 mL. Both groundwater plants pumped fecal coliform-free water from the aquifer. About half of the pumps at all four plants were not operational, limiting the ability to provide the city with adequate water pressure. Water from different treatment plants was mixed within the distribution system of the city. In addition, the western portion of the city received unfiltered surface water through a siphon from the main sedimentation basin at one of the treatment plants, and the catchment area for clinic 11 received a mixture of spring water and unfiltered, unchlorinated river water. The chlorine-producing facility in Yavan, Tajikistan, which once supplied chlorine to Tajikistan and several other Central Asian countries, was closed in 1996; a site visit revealed no salvageable equipment. From December 1996 to the beginning of April 1997, no chlorine was available at any of the treatment plants. Water quality testing. Of water samples from homes or community taps throughout the city, 97% contained fecal coliform bacteria, indicating contamination by animal or human feces. The average concentration of fecal coliforms in finished water leaving the surface water treatment plants was 163 cfu/100 mL and for water at the wellheads at the two groundwater plants, 0 cfu/100 mL. Flow-adjusted average concentration of fecal coliforms for water leaving the four treatment plants was 60 cfu/100 mL. The average fecal coliform concentration in water samples taken from household and community taps throughout the city was 175 cfu/100 mL (range, 0 to 1400), triple the calculated concentration in water leaving the plants. This indicates that water contamination increased during passage through the distribution system after water left the treatment plants.