Background. Early in the spring of 1993 there was a widespread outbreak of acute watery diarrhea among the residents of Milwaukee. Methods. We investigated the two Milwaukee water- treatment plants, gathered data from clinical laboratories on the results of tests for enteric pathogens, and examined ice made during the time of the outbreak for cryptosporidium oocysts. We surveyed residents with confirmed cryptosporidium infection and a sample of those with acute watery diarrhea consistent with cryptosporidium infection. To estimate the magnitude of the outbreak, we also conducted a survey using randomly selected telephone numbers in Milwaukee and four surrounding counties. Results. There were marked increases in the turbidity of treated water at the city's southern water-treatment plant from March 23 until April 9, when the plant was shut down. Cryptosporidium oocysts were identified in water from ice made in southern Milwaukee during these weeks. The rates of isolation of other enteric pathogens remained stable, but there was more than a 100-fold increase in the rate of isolation of cryptosporidium. The median duration of illness was 9 days (range, 1 to 55). The median maximal number of stools per day was 12 (range, 1 to 90). Among 285 people surveyed who had laboratory-confirmed cryptosporidiosis, the clinical manifestations included watery diarrhea (in 93 percent), abdominal cramps (in 84 percent), fever (in 57 percent), and vomiting (in 48 percent). We estimate that 403,000 people had watery diarrhea attributable to this outbreak. Conclusions. This massive outbreak of watery diarrhea was caused by cryptosporidium oocysts that passed through the filtration system of one of the city's water-treatment plants. Water-quality standards and the testing of patients for cryptosporidium were not adequate to detect this outbreak. On April 5, 1993, the Wisconsin Division of Health was contacted by the Milwaukee Department of Health after reports of numerous cases of gastrointestinal illness that had resulted in widespread absenteeism among hospital employees, students, and school-teachers. Little information was available about the nature of the illness or the results of laboratory tests of stool specimens from those who were ill. 0B April 7, two laboratories identified cryptosporidium oocysts in stool samples from seven adult residents of the Milwaukee area; none of the laboratories surveyed had found evidence of increased or unusual patterns of isolation of any other enteric pathogen. The Milwaukee Water Works (MWW), which  obtains water from Lake Michigan, supplies treated water to residences and businesses in the City of Milwaukee and nine surrounding municipalities in Milwaukee County. Either of two water-treatment plants, one located in the northern part of the city, and the other in the southern part, can supply water to the entire district; however, when both plants are in operation, the southern plant predominantly serves the southern portion of the district. Examination of the two plants' records on the quality of untreated water (intake) and treated water (that supplied to customers) revealed an increase in the turbidity of treated water from the southern plant, beginning approximately on March 21, with increases to unprecedented levels of turbidity from March 23 through April 5. These findings pointed to the water supply as the likely source of infection and led to the institution, on the evening of April 7, of an advisory to M WW customers to boil their water. The southern plant was temporarily closed on April 9. The policies, procedures, and physical plant of the southern M WW facility were reviewed and inspected in April 1993. Data on the monthly maximal turbidity of untreated and treated water from both plants were reviewed and analyzed for the period from January 1983 through April 1993. Data on the daily maximal turbidity and coliform count in untreated and treated water, as well as the pH and temperature of untreated water, were analyzed for the period from February through April 1993. Water that had been frozen and stored by a southern Milwaukee company in 213-liter blocks on March 25 and April 9, 1993, was melted and examined. From ice produced on each of those dates, three aliquots of water totaling 639 liters (three melted blocks) were filtered with peristaltic pumps and two types of filter: spun-polypropylene cartridge filters with a nominal porosity of I pm (approximate flow rate, 4 liters per minute), and 29.2-cm Millipore filters with a porosity of 0.45 1-tm (approximate flow rate, 2 liters per minute). The filters were eluted, the eluates centrifuged, and the pellets resuspended with the use of a standard procedure; the suspensions were examined for cryptosporidium oocysts with an 17 immunofluorescent technique. On April 7, surveillance for enteric pathogens was begun among 14 clinical laboratories in Milwaukee County. The laboratories reported the retrospective (March I through April 6, 1993) and prospective (April 7 through 16, 1993) test results for all stool speciemens submitted for bacterial or viral culture and examination for ova and parasites. All 14 laboratories routinely tested all stool specimens submitted for bacterial culture for salmonella, shigella, and campylobacter, at a minimum. At our request, the laboratories reported, both retrospectively and prospectively, all positive tests for cryptosporidium from March I through May 30. Before April 7, 12 of the 14 laboratories tested for cryptosporidium only at the request of a physician; beginning on April 7, these 12 laboratories began to test all stool specimens for this coccidian protozoan. Cryptosporidium testing was performed according to standard concentration techniques with either modified acid-fast staining (13 laboratories) or direct fluorescent antibody staining19 (l laboratory). On April 13, stool specimens were solicited from I I Milwaukee residents with gastrointestinal illness that had begun within the previous 48 hours. Stool specimens from these residents were tested for enteric pathogens with the use of routine procedures for enteric bacterial and viral culture, examination for ova and parasites, and modified acid-fast staining after formalin\u2014ether sedimentation. The stool specimens were examined by electron microscopy. Serum samples obtained during the acute and convalescent phases of illness in 8 of the I I residents were tested for antibody to the Norwalk 20 virus. A total of 739 people were found to have cryptosporidium in stool samples tested by the 14 participating laboratories between March I and May 30, Telephone numbers were available for 567 (77 percent) of these 739 people with laboratory-confirmed cryptosporidium infection, and 312 (55 percent) were interviewed by telephone. Of these 312 people, 285 (91 percent) reported an onset of illness between March I and May 15, 1993, and were considered case patients; the other 27 people were excluded from the study because their illnesses had begun before March l. Telephone interviews were completed during two periods: from April 9 through April 13 (phase l), 101 case patients were interviewed; and from April 17 through June 2 (phase 2), 200 were interviewed, including 16 of those who had been interviewed during phase l. The same questionnaire was used in both phases to collect information on demographic characteristics and clinical illness. During the second phase, however, additional questions were asked about preexisting chronic diseases, weight loss, recurrent diarrhea, and length of hospital stay. People were considered to be immunocompromised if they reported having had a positive test for the human immunodeficiency virus or if they were being treated with immunosuppressive drugs, cancer chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or renal dialysis. To determine representative clinical characteristics of illness among the people affected by the outbreak, a telephone survey was conducted on April 9, 10, and 12 with the use of randomly selected telephone numbers from the M WW service area. The first adult 18 years of age) to answer the telephone was interviewed with the same questionnaire used in phase I to collect demographic and clinical information from the people with laboratory-confirmed cryptosporidiosis. Survey respondents were identified as having clinical cryptosporidium infection if they reported the occurrence of watery diarrhea between March l, 1993, and the time of the interview. To determine the extent of the outbreak, we conducted a telephone survey of households in the greater Milwaukee area (Milwaukee County and the four surrounding counties) with the use of a random-digit dialing method.21'22 Households in the sample were contacted by interviewers from the Wisconsin Survey Research Laboratory during the period from April 28 through May 2. For each household, the interviewer asked to speak with the person most knowledgeable about the health of all members of the household. For each household member, this person provided information about demographic characteristics; employment or school attendance outside the home; the ZIP Code of the residence and work-place or school; the occurrence of diarrhea since March l, 1993; and the onset, duration, and character of the diarrhea. W\u00e9 defined a case of probable cryptosporidium infection as the onset of watery diarrhea during the period from March I through April 28, 1993. The residential ZIP Code was used to assign each person in the survey to one of four regions. The southern region was defined as the region that received water predominantly from the southern water-treatment plant, the northern region as that receiving water predominantly from the northern plant, and the middle zone as that receiving water from either plant, depending on supply and demand. In our analysis, all three of these regions were considered part of the M WW service area. All surveyed areas not receiving MWW water were considered in aggregate as the non-MWW region. t the time of the outbreak, both M WW plants treated water by adding chlorine and polyaluminum chloride (a coagulant to enhance the formation of larger particulates), rapid mixing, mechanical flocculation (which promotes the aggregation of particulates to form floc), sedimentation, and rapid sand filtration, After filtration, the effluent (treated water) was stored in a large clear well until it was supplied to customers. Filters were cleaned by backwashing them with water, which was then recycled through the treatment process. From January 1983 through January 1993, the turbidity of treated water at the southern plant did not exceed 0.4 nephelometric turbidity unit (NT U). During the period from February through April 1993, the turbidity of treated water at the southern plant did not exceed 0.25 NT U until March 18, when it increased to 0.35 NTU. From March 23 to April 1, the maximal daily turbidity of treated water was consistently 0.45.