In an outbreak of gastroenteritis affecting 43 people, cryptosporidium and campylobacter were isolated from stool specimens and in two cases dual infection was found. All the cases had drunk unboiled water from a private untreated water supply. Investigations revealed the carcasses of three lambs in a collection chamber connected with the water supply, and these, or run-off of slurry from surrounding fields, were the presumed source of contamination. Issues relating to the maintenance and monitoring of private water supplies are discussed. Problems with such supplies include old piping, proximity of livestock, inadequate knowledge of the layout and limited resources for monitoring and maintenance. On the 20 May 1993 a general practitioner requested the Department of Public Health Medicine in Northumberland to investigate an outbreak of diarrhoea and vomiting affecting a party of foreign students staying in self-catering accommodation in a wing of a mediaeval building. Forty-five students and nine tutors were resident in this building; meals were taken communally by students and tutors on week days, with students preparing meals in an organized rota. At weekends, students and staff were self-catering using the same facilities, or eating out at local commercial establishments. A private water supply served the mediaeval manor, which contained a cafeteria open to the public and residential accommodation for the landowner and the students and tutors, in addition to a number of estate houses. Enquiries to the local general practitioners and the single local microbiology laboratory did not reveal any concerns about the incidence of gastroenteritis in the general population of the twon. The case definition was therefore initially restricted to anyone resident in the accommodation wing who had developed symptoms of diarrhoea and/or vomiting in the week beginning 15 May 1993. The student residence was visited and general enquiries about catering arrangements and hygiene practices were made. A kitchen inspection was carried out and details of menus prepared in the previous week were obtained. Food histories were taken from those individuals who had been symptomatic. It was noted that the private water supply had been routinely tested in February 1993 and had been found to be satisfactory. Where possible, stool specimens were collected from all symptomatic people. The day after the investigation began, the majority of resident students left on holiday and were thus unable to provide faeces samples. Faeces samples were cultured for salmonella, shigella and campylobacter, examined for cryptosporidium cysts using a phenol-auramine stain, and submitted for electron microscopy and cell culture to detect viruses. Water specimens from the building were collected, and 100 ml aliquots were examined by the membrane filtration technique [8], to identify and quantify Escherischia coli as a marker of faecal contamination. Following the isolation of cryptosporidium and campylobacter from several of the cases, three 101 water samples were tested specifically for the presence of campylobacter by a similar filtration technique, and a 400 1 sample of water was examined for the presence of cryptosporidium cysts. This involved filtering the sample through a 1 ,um cartridge filter (Cartouche Filtrante), followed by examination of the filtrate by an immunofluorescent monoclonal antibody test (Shield Diagnostics). Information was obtained concerning the nature and extent of the private water supply. Later in the course of the investigation, when there were indications that the outbreak was water-borne, detailed inspections of the water supply were carried out. The first 4 cases were on 16 May 1993; on every subsequent day for the next 10 days more people became ill (Fig. 1). By the end of the outbreak, 32 students and 6 tutors living in the accommodation block had reported illness, as had 5 other people resident elsewhere in the estate. Symptoms ranged from mild abdominal discomfort with nausea to severe vomiting and diarrhoea. No bloody diarrhoea was reported. Three young women were admitted to hospital for rehydration therapy. The duration of symptoms was 2-14 days with a median of 6 days. In total, 200 residents were served by the private water supply, and the overall attack rate was 22%. One hundred and twenty people live or work in the mediaeval building, and 30 of these became ill (an attack rate of 32 %); 80 people were resident in other properties served by the water supply, and 5 of these became ill (an attack rate of 6%). Of the 20 stool specimens submitted for examination from symptomatic cases, 11 contained pathogens: Campylobacter jejuni was isolated in 5 cases, cryptosporidium was isolated in 4 cases, and in 2 cases both organisms were isolated (Table 1). No viruses were isolated from the faeces samples submitted. No other cases of campylobacter or cryptosporidium infection were reported in May 1993 in the surrounding local authority district which has a population of 30000. The water system dated from the 19th Century, and drew its supply from several springs in the locality (Fig. 2). Much of the Victorian piping had been replaced in 1986 with modern plastic pipes; some of the springs were also disconnected from the system at this time. The original Victorian cast-iron pipes had been left in place, and a plug in the collection chamber shown in Figs 2 and 3 served to disconnect them from the part of the system still in use. High E. coli counts were obtained from water samples taken from the student residence and adjacent buildings. Following the isolation of E. coli from water samples taken in the mediaeval building, further samples were taken from several points served by the same supply. These yielded high counts of E. coli at and downstream from the large storage chamber (see Table 1, Fig. 2); with very low or zero counts in samples from above this. This suggested contamination in or near the storage chamber. A search of the area by environmental health officers and estate workers revealed three dead lambs in a collecting chamber of a spring (Fig. 3). This collection chamber contained the plug which was intended to disconnect the spring and the old piping from the new system: this plug was found to have perished. A marker was added to the water in the collection chamber and confirmed the connection between the spring and the storage chamber 70 m away. Unfortunately, the carcasses of the lambs were destroyed before microbiological specimens could be obtained. No campylobacters or cryptosporidia were detected in the water samples examined. During the course of the subsequent operations to decontaminate the water supply, a further inlet into the large storage chamber from an unknown source was discovered (Fig. 3). It also emerged that the pasture surrounding the storage and collection chambers had been spread with slurry 5 days before the first cases became symptomatic, just before a period of unusually heavy rainfall (Fig. 1); this suggested that contaminated surface water may have polluted the water supply. There was some variation in the number of E. coli isolated from the various outlets below the storage chamber and the presumed point of contamination, with the highest levels found in the kitchen in the student accommodation. For people consuming water below the point of contamination, the overall attack rate was 30% (43 out of 145 residents). In the student accommodation wing the attack rate was much higher at 70% (38 out of 54 residents). An explanation for To Mediaeval manor the variation in the level of contamination and in the subsequent clinical attack was sought. Water outlets in the student residence and in the cafeteria were protected by a 5,tm filter and an ultraviolet light. However, the UV light at the outlet in the students' kitchen, where the highest E. coli count was found, had a brown deposit coating the inner quartz sleeve, reducing UV transmission into the water. Another outlet in a lavatory within the building was untreated. One of the estate workers, symptomatic with campylobacter infection, had regularly drunk from this source. The manufacturers of the water sterilizer units, in their instructions on the maintenance of this equipment, emphasize that sterilization of water by UV light depends on adequate penetration, which is not possible if the water is cloudy or the glass dirty. Thus they recommend that the quartz tube encasing the ultraviolet light source is kept clean, and that the filter is replaced when water flow becomes unacceptably low. If the light source is switched on permanently, they recommend routine replacement every 6 months. In this outbreak, it would appear that the filters and lamps were replaced appropriately, but due attention was not paid to the build-up of deposit on the quartz tube. Following the results of the water microbiology, a notice to boil water was issued to all properties served by the private water supply. Subsequently only one further person became ill, and this was within one day of the issue of the boil notice. The land owner arranged for a private contractor to empty and desludge the water chambers, and to disinfect the water supply, a process which took a number of weeks. This was followed by regular monitoring of the water supply.