Although postconflict Afghanistan has some of the worst health indicators in the world, the government is working hard to rebuild the health infrastructure, extend services to underserved areas and improve the quality of health services. An outbreak of cholera ElTor O1that struck Kabul and spread nationwide in 2005, prompted a collaborative response from the Afghan Ministry of Public Health, partner agencies, and the system established to provide the Basic Package of Health Services, of which diarrhoeal disease control is an essential component. This response illustrates that, with good preparation, it is possible to respond to an outbreak of cholera effectively. The very low mortality rate during the outbreak (0.1%) shows howa resource-poor country can succeed in providing high-quality health services with government commitment, coordinated action by partners, proper case management and treatment and expanded access to services. In the middle of May 2005, reports were sent to the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), through the newly developed health management information system, about increasing numbers of patients with acute, massive, watery diarrhoea with signs of moderate to severe dehydration. Up to 50 cases a day were reported in each of the four major hospitals in Kabul that serve as part of the sentinel urveillance system: the Infectious Disease Hospital, Indira Gandhi Child Health Institute and Maiwand Hospital \u2013 all of which are located within a few miles of each other in the centre of Kabul \u2013 and the Khair Khana Hospital \u2013 located about 10 miles north of the other hospitals. As the numbers of cases increased, officials from the MOPH began to record basic data from the patients\u2019 hospital records, such as age, sex and address. Table 1 shows the numbers and types of cases of dehydration from acute watery diarrhoea presenting to the four main treatment centres during July, 2005, at the peak of the epidemic. Over the next two months, the taskforce organized and directed the following activities in Kabul: House-to-house hygiene education through 161,370 meetings with families in affected communities; Periodic water samples for cholera testing; Chlorination of 86,832 shallow wells in residential areas; House-to-house distribution of 1,139,694 chlorine tablets and liquid chlorine in the areas most affected by the outbreak; House-to-house distribution of 98,000 ORS packets; Information, education and communication campaigns on personal hygiene and use of ORS for the Kabul residents most affected, including distribution of 42,000 posters, 60,000 leaflets, 400 flipcharts and 200 banners. In addition to these activities, the MOPH, with assistance from its partners, developed a simple system for recording cases of acute watery diarrhoea, including designing and pilot-testing data collection forms, training data collectors to use them, and entering the data into a computerized database. An additional 22 sentinel surveillance sites (hospitals and clinics) for acute watery diarrhoea were identified, and information on cases was collected daily. The close monitoring of numbers of cases and deaths, and their locations in the city, assisted in the timely and appropriate deployment of supplies. During the testing of stool samples from the provinces, the cholera serotype Inaba (which has historically been more common in Pakistan) was found, indicating that some of the cases may have travelled from Pakistan into Afghanistan. At the time, Pakistan also reported an outbreak of acute watery diarrhoea. As the outbreak progressed, the taskforce held weekly coordination meetings and planned the transport of supplies both within Kabul and to other provinces, where confirmed cases of cholera were identified in Afghanistan\u2019s major cities and in the rural areas of many provinces. Close monitoring of the outbreak\u2019s progress made possible the prepositioning of stocks of IV fluids and ORS at the health facilities treating the largest numbers of cases. Since large supplies of IV fluids were being used by hospitals, a subcommittee of the taskforce was assigned to assess the Kabul hospitals\u2019 consumption of medical supplies, appropriate case management of diarrhoea using ORS, and personal hygiene and disease prevention activities. This assessment showed that most hospitals had adequate supplies for managing large numbers of cases; however, hygiene standards in the wards were low and hospital personnel were overworked. The assessment also determined that health workers had good knowledge about the treatment of acute watery diarrhoea due to training that had been conducted for implementation of the Basic Package of Health Services. However, in many cases, health workers were prescribing IV fluids for patients with diarrhoea who could be treated with ORS. Table 1 shows that only 4% of patients had severe dehydration, while for the 25% with moderate dehydration, ORS could have been used more effectively. The four major hospitals used up to 5,000 units of IV solution a day, a substantial waste of resources for patients whose records showed that ORS alone would have been adequate. The overuse of IV fluids led to shortages of IV supplies by July. Emphasis was placed on the early use of ORS when treating patients. Eventually, the supplies of IVs ran out, so ORS became the only treatment available. By August 2005, the number of new cases of acute watery diarrhoea in Kabul began to decline. Figure 1 shows the explosive rise in the number of cases of acute watery diarrhoea early in the epidemic, indicating rapid spread through the water table, and a slow decline as the summer wore on.