 Over a 5 day period in October 2007 a boil-water notice was served on the majority of Oslo, capital city of Norway, as a result of a combination of bacteriological findings (coliforms, intestinal enterococci, and E. coli), and very low numbers of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in 10 L water samples taken from the water distribution network. The water source had been regularly monitored for these parasites and generally found to be negative. Over 460,000 residents were affected by the boil-water notice, as were many thousands of businesses. Despite an extensive outbreak of waterborne giardiasis in Bergen, Norway during 2004/2005, occurrence of parasites in Norwegian drinking water supplies has apparently continued to be considered to be of minimal relevance by Norwegian health authorities. Here we describe the background and occurrence of 
the episode in Oslo, including the species of Cryptosporidium detected, and use this event, in conjunction with incidents from other countries, as a basis to discuss the following issues: 1. under which circumstances should the occurrence of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in water supplies trigger the issue of a boil-water notice, and 2. the possibilities and probabilities of post-treatment contamination events in the water distribution network. A time-line of events is summarised in Table 1 (Fauskerud 2008 personal communication; Dybing & Krogh 2007) and described in more detail below. On 5th October 2007, a pharmaceutical company which receives mains water supplied from Oset water treatment works, reported to Oslo VAV that between 18th September and 3rd October coliform bacteria had been detected in 9 tap water samples analysed by the company. In 6 of these samples the bacteria had been identified; 4 samples contained Enterobacter amnigenus and 2 samples Serratia fonticola. In response to this report, on 8th October Oslo VAV took 3 water samples from different points in 
the water distribution network in the immediate area around the pharmaceutical company facilities. Whilst 2 samples were bacteriologically negative, one sample was positive, with 9 coliforms and 1 E. coli per 100 ml. A repeat sample from this site (10th October) demonstrated 4 coliforms, 4 E. coli, and 2 intestinal enterococci per 100 ml. Based on these results, on 12th October, 3 further water samples were taken for bacteriological analysis and 1 10L sample for parasitological analysis and a boil-water notice was instituted for a restricted area (3 streets) in the immediate surroundings of the affected locality. One presumptive Giardia cyst (good morphology and fluorescence characteristics of the shell, but empty, and therefore no internal morphology) was detected in the 10L water sample, which was noted during the analysis as being particularly dirty, with high content of debris and algae. On 13th and 14th October further samples were taken for bacteriological analysis, both from the previous sampling sites and from 10 new sites. Additionally, it was decided on 15th October to take 4 further samples for parasitological analysis. On 16th October, neither coliform bacteria, nor E.coli, nor intestinal enterococci were reported to have been detected in the samples taken on 12th October (3 samples), 13th October (13 samples) and 14th October (13 samples), although initial tests had shown possible coliforms but colonies were small and atypical. However, amongst the 4 10L water samples taken for parasitological analysis, which were again noted as being particularly dirty, Cryptosporidium oocysts were detected in 2 samples (1 oocyst per 10 L and 2 oocysts per 10L), Giardia was detected in 1 sample (1 cyst per 10L) and 1 sample was negative for both parasites. Following the report of these results to Oslo VAV, a \u2018crisis meeting\u2019 was held involving members of the Oslo VAV crisis team, the Oslo Health Authority, the Food Safety Authority and the Public Health Institute and based both on the detection of E. coli and on the results of the parasitological analyses, it was decided to institute a boil water notice for all areas of the city supplied with water from Oset treatment works. The authors of the present report were not consulted in reaching this decision. The boil-water notice was effectively in action from the morning of 17th October with communication to the city residents and work-places by all available media, including internet, radio and television broadcast. A wide-spread sampling regime was instituted from 17th October, in which 10 L water samples were collected from various sites, including raw and treated water at the treatment works and various sites throughout the water distribution system, giving a total of 21 samples. This sampling regime was repeated daily until 21st October when, on the basis of the results obtained, the boil-water notice was rescinded and the extensive sampling regime replaced by a 7-site daily sampling regime from the 22nd to 25th October. From then until the end of November, the 7 sites were sampled twice weekly and reduced to once per week in December. With the exception of 1 group of 21 samples, which were analysed at M-Lab in Stavanger, Norway, all samples were analysed at the Parasitology Laboratory at NVH. The results for October are summarised in Table 2. None of the positive samples were untreated water from Oset water treatment plant, but one positive sample on 17th October was from treated water from the plant. The other positive samples were from different points in the water distribution system in Oslo. Additionally, two different boats which suspected that they might have loaded contaminated water in Oslo requested analysis of 10L water samples for Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts. The result from one boat (analysis conducted at NVH) was negative, whereas in the sample from the other boat (analysis conducted at Mlab, Stavanger), 2 Giardia cysts with excellent morphology and fluorescence characteristics were identified. All the slides from the samples identified as positive at NVH were stored and subsequently molecular studies were conducted on 4 of these containing Cryptosporidium oocysts (1 from 15th October containing 2 Cryptosporidium oocysts, 2 from 17th October each containing 1 Cryptosporidium oocyst and 1 from 20th October containing 2 Cryptosporidium oocysts). The cover-slip from each slide was carefully removed and retained, top-side down, whilst 25ml aliquots of AL lysis buffer (Qiagen GmbH, Germany) were added to the slide wells which were carefully and gently scraped using a sterile scalpel blade. The buffer and scrapings were then pipetted into a microcentrifuge tube. This process was repeated 4 times, collecting the buffer and scrapings into the appropriate tube for each slide, and then the cover-slip was replaced onto the slide which was then re-screened. For each slide the oocysts could no longer be detected.