A case-control and a case-crossover study were performed to investigate a Campylobacter jejuni outbreak in Crete in 2009. Most cases originated from rural areas, served by a different water-supply system from that of the adjacent town. Thirty-seven cases and 79 controls were interviewed; cases were interviewed for two different time periods for the case-crossover study. Stool cultures, PFGE and MLST subtyping were run in human samples. Univariately, consumption of tap water was associated with C. jejuni infection. Stratified analysis revealed that water-supply system was an effect modifier of this association. In the multivariable analysis, the rural areas\u2019 water supplier and drinking tap water were risk factors. No risk factors were revealed in the case-crossover study. No Campylobacter were isolated in the tested water samples. There is strong epidemiological evidence that tap water was the vehicle of the outbreak. On 3 June 2009, the local Public Health Directorate of Chania, a town in western Crete, informed the Hellenic Centre for Diseases Control and Prevention (HCDCP) in Athens about an unusual increase in C. jejuni cases in children living in rural areas around the town. The Chania General Hospital (CGH) informed HCDCP on 5 June 2009 that 31/70 stool samples that had been tested since 29 May 2009 were positive for C. jejuni. According to the laboratory-based surveillance system, the annual number of reported Campylobacter-positive stool cultures in the prefecture of Chania had been two in 2006, nine in 2007 and 13 in 2008. Communications with the paediatric and internal medicine wards of CGH revealed that most of the cases were children and that symptoms were mild, including mainly diarrhoea, often bloody, and fever. Most cases were not hospitalized. Sixty cases had a positive C. jejuni stool culture confirmed at CGH between 1 May and 24 June 2009. Fifty-five of these cases (91.7%) resided in the rural areas adjacent to the town of Chania and the remainder resided within the town\u2019s boundaries. For 54 of the cases, the exact date of sample acquisition was known (Fig. 1). Of 59 cases of known sex, 27 (45.8%) were female. Fifty-nine cases also had their age registered; the median age was 2.1 years (36 days to 73 years). In total, 7/59 (11.9%) cases were aged >14 years. Of all these cases in the outbreak area, 50 were eligible for participation in the analytical studies. Thirty-seven cases and 79 controls responded (response rates 74.0% and 63.7%, respectively). The median age of both cases and controls was 2 years (1 month to 10 years, and 2 months to 11 years, respectively). Sex distribution did not differ between cases and controls ; 17 (45.9%) of the cases and 38 (48.1%) of the controls were female. Thirty-five (94.6%) of the participating cases resided in the rural areas. Of all 116 participants, 31 (26.7%) resided in areas where the water was supplied by the municipal water company of Chania. No cases or controls reported travel. Sex and age distribution did not differ between respondents and non-respondents. The most commonly reported symptoms in cases were diarrhoea (100%), fever (58.3%), bloody stool (58.3%), vomiting (27.8%) and abdominal pain (25.0%). No other symptoms were reported. Vomiting was present only in children aged >1 year. Potable water is automatically chlorinated at municipal level before distribution to households in all municipalities around Chania. There had been no power outages during the time preceding the outbreak that could have led to temporary poor water chlorination. In non-outbreak settings, municipalities are not obliged to run full water controls more than once per year. Some of the tests carried out in one of the outbreak municipalities showed total absence of residual chlorine in tap water at a site within the outbreak area. However, results were consistently >0.2 mg/l within the municipality of Chania. During the time prior to outbreak onset, the hospital had repeatedly found very low residual chlorine levels in its tap water ; in one of the sites tested in the hospital, residual chorine levels were as low as 0.04 mg/l. Tap and bottled water tests were negative for Campylobacter and indicator microorganisms. Three chicken samples were taken from three supermarkets and one was found to be positive for C. jejuni. PFGE results from the positive chicken culture were different compared to those from the stool samples (Fig. 2). The MLST results were also different.