On August 4, 1971, the manager of a trailer park in Pico Rivera, California, called the local health district to report an outbreak of diarrhea among residents. A sanitarian visited the site and was infonned that approximately 30 of the residents had become ill with diarrhea and stomach cramps beginning July 31. Most attributed their illness to the water supply of the trailer park. When water samples drawn from taps within the trailer park and from a nearby reservoir were reported as presumptively positive for fecal coliforms, sanitary and epidemiological investigations were begun. The sanitarian who first visited the trailer park on August 4 drew samples from seven taps in the park, and a sample from Well 8 and from Reservoir 9. He noted no chlorine residual at any of the nine sampling points. Two of the samples from the trailer park and the sample from Reservoir 9 were reported to be presumptively positive for coliforms. Therefore, on August 5 the Water District was advised to chlorinate Reservoir 9 and all receiving forebays in the system and to isolate the reservoir from the distribution system. An inspection of the reservoir revealed that the chlorinator was not functioning, but only because its chlorine supply was exhausted. Logs at the reservoir site showed that chlorine residual had last been checked on July 27. The chlorine supply was probably exhausted on July 29 or 30. Subsequent laboratory tests revealed high fecal coliform concentrations in samples drawn from the trailer park, from the reservoir, and from the discharge of the gravity transmission line, but not from Well 9. This showed that the gravity line had become contaminated, and suggested that the failure of the chlorination equipment had allowed pollution of Reservoir 9 and the neighboring parts of the distribution system. An epidemiological investigation of the trailer park outbreak began on August 10, with Health Department personnel conducting interviews in a random sample of 39 of the 120 trailers. Laboratory studies were necessarily limited because a week had elapsed between the time of the outbreak and the time of the epidemiological investigations. No bacterial pathogens were isolated from 41 stool samples collected from well and ill persons at the trailer park. Virus isolations were not attempted because of expense and the small likelihood of recovery of a possible viral agent. The entire water system of the district was surveyed bacteriologically. Samples revealed no contamination of any well, but showed most probable numbers (MPNs) of coliforms and fecal coliforms >16 per 100 ml at some sampling points in the trailer park, in the reservoir, and at the outlet of the gravity line. Other distribution system samples were negative. Serially diluted samples from the gravity line showed a coliform MPN of 60 per 100 ml when Well 9 was in operation; when Well 9 was shut down the gravity line continued to drain a moderate amount of water whose coliform count rose to a MPN of 230. Well 9 was then shut down permanently; the gravity line continued to drain slowly, and sampling during the next 3 weeks showed rising coliform counts ranging from 370 per 100 ml to over 24,000 per 100 ml. Fecal coliform MPNs ranged from 620 to >24,000 per 100 ml. Random samples from the gravity line showed fecal streptococci ranging from <45 to 620 per 100 ml. Attempts to isolate bacterial pathogens by filtration and centrifugation techniques were unsuccessful. Viral isolations from water were not attempted.