From May to June 2012, a waterborne outbreak of 124 cases of cryptosporidiosis occurred in the plumbing systems of an older high-rise apartment complex in Seoul, Republic of Korea. The residents of this apartment complex had symptoms of watery diarrhea and vomiting. Tap water samples in the apartment complex and its adjacent buildings were collected and tested for 57parameters under the Korean Drinking Water Standards and for additional 11 microbiological parameters. The microbiological parameters included total colony counts, Clostridium perfringens, Enterococcus, fecal streptococcus, Salmonella, Shigella, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Cryptosporidium oocysts, Giardia cysts, total culturable viruses, and Norovirus. While the tap water samples of the adjacent buildings complied with the Korean Drinking Water Standards for all parameters, fecal bacteria and Cryptosporidium oocysts were detected in the tap water samples of the outbreak apartment complex. It turned out that the agent of the disease was Cryptosporidium parvum. The drinking water was polluted with sewage from a septic tank in the apartment complex. To remove C. parvum oocysts, we conducted physical processes of cleaning the water storage tanks, flushing the indoor pipes, and replacing old pipes with new ones. Finally we restored the clean drinking water to the apartment complex after identification of no oocysts. In May 2012, a waterborne outbreak of cryptosporidiosis involving 124 patients occurred in an old high-rise apartment complex inSeoul, Korea. This apartment complex was built in 1977 and consists of 3 buildings (A, B, and C) each with 12 stories. A total of 228households live in this apartment. Guui Water Treatment Plant (WTP) supplied the drinking water to the plumbing systems in thisapartment complex. The supplied water was provided to dwellers via 2-step plumbing systems of the apartment complex's own. Itconsisted of 1 underground drinking water storage tank (300 m3) supplied from water main and next 3 drinking water storage tanks (30 m3) located on the rooftop of each building (Fig. 1). Septic tank of the apartment complex was close to the underground drinking water tank in a distance of 1 m. The inlet pipe of the septic tank was located just above the inlet pipe of the underground water tank. Both pipes were old and corroded. The residents of the apartment complex conducted cleaning of the water storage tanks on 27 April 2012 before this outbreak. The residents said that the illness started to arise after cleaning of the water storage tanks. East District Waterworks (EDW) of Seoul Metropolitan Government received a call from a citizen requesting inspection for tap water quality on 23 May 2012. The citizen said that 227 residents of this apartment complex sufferred for diarrhea after drinking the tap water. EDW inspected fecal indicators for the tap water via water tank and directly supplied the tap water. Fecal material was not detected in directly supplied tap water. However, total coliforms and Escherichia coli were detected in the tap water supplied from the water storage tank. EDW advised to boil the water temporary on 24 May 2012. EDW requested the accurate inspection to the Waterworks Research Institute of Seoul Metropolitan Government on 24 May 2012. When a report was received on 23 May, the symptoms of the early infected adults disappeared. However, illness was prolonged among children and aged people. New infections by the same pollutant or secondary infections by person-to-person were suspected. The common symptoms were watery diarrhea, vomiting, stomach ache, nausea, and fever. There were 124 people who had experienced symptoms; however, including unanswered residents, it seems that more people may have experienced cryptosporidiosis. They took medicine to stop diarrhea but the symptoms restarted after they stopped taking antidiarrheal drugs. We collected water samples from the apartment complex on 25 May 2012. The sampling sites were total 11 which included 3 sites for directly supplied drinking water from Guui WTP, 1 site for underground drinking water storage tank, and 7 sites for water supplied from under and roof drinking water storage tanks (Fig. 1; Table 1). We tested the first samples (sites 1-1, 2-1, 3-1, and 4-1)for 57 parameters of Korean Drinking Water Quality Standards (KDWQS) including total coliforms, E. coli, total colony counts at35\u2103 by the Korean standard methods for examination of drinking water [21]. In addition, to inspect for the presence of specific infectious agents, we analyzed microbiological parameters including total colony counts at 21\u2103, Clostridium perfringens, Enterococcus, fecal Streptococcus, Salmonella, Shigella, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa by the Korean standard methods for examination of drinking water [21], and also analyzed the total culturable viruses by culturing [22], Norovirus by genetic analysis[23], and Cryptosporidium and Giardia by filtration/immunomagnetic separation and immunofluorescence assay [24,25]. For identification of Cryptosporidium spp., we conducted PCR amplifications and DNA sequencing analysis. The primer sets were complementary to Cryptosporidium 18S rRNA gene sequence with hyper variation area as reported by Jellison et al. [26]. On 25May 2012, we conducted the tests of all parameters. We collected only 2-3 samples for the test of parasitic protozoa and viruses because it took a long time to test. From 31 May to 25 June 2012, we collected water samples for the test of Cryptosporidium oocysts, Giardia cysts, and 11 bacteriological parameters. The directly supplied tap water (site 1-1) complied with the KDWQS for all of the 57 parameters. However, the tap water samples from the plumbing systems in the apartment (sites 2-1, 3-1, and 4-1) did not meet the standard values for 3 parameters of bacteria(total coliforms, E. coli, and total colony counts at 35\u2103) but met standard values for other 54 parameters (data not shown). All samples from the directly supplied tap water were normal for all microbiological parameters from 25 May to 4 June 2012.However, the first samples collected on 25 May 2012 from the plumbing systems revealed positive results for 5 kinds of bacteria and Cryptosporidium oocysts with high concentrations of 75,000 oocysts/100 L, although viruses were not detected (Tables 2, 3; Fig. 2). From 31 May to 25 June 2012, the bacteriological parameters became negative in all water samples from the plumbing systems; however, Cryptosporidium oocysts were continuously detected in the samples collected from 31 May to 10 June 2012except the samples collected on 7 June 2012.