In July 1984, an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred in a suburban community in Texas. A random telephone survey of 100 of 1791 households in the community identified an attack rate of 34%. The outbreak was traced to contamination of the community water supply, an artesian well. Fecal coliforms were identified in untreated drinking water from the well during July. Stool examinations and serologic tests identified Cryptosporidium as the etiologic agent. Cryptosporidium should be added to the list of waterborne organisms capable of causing outbreaks of gastroenteritis. Braun Station is a suburban community of approximately 5900 persons located 20 miles northwest of San Antonio, Texas. Potable water was supplied to all households from the same artesian well. Water was not filtered before use but it was chlorinated with gas shortly before distribution. We surveyed 100 of 1791 households in Braun Station for a total of 346 persons. Our investigation showed two distinct outbreaks of gastroenteritis in the community between 1 May and 30 July 1984. The first outbreak in May was identified retrospectively. We found that 251 persons (72%) in 85 households had an acute gastrointestinal illness. Only 2.5% of the 120 persons living in the 50 households outside Braun Station had diarrhea or vomiting in May (p < 0.00001, chi-square test). The dates of onset of symptoms for the first ill persons in 74 households are shown in Figure 1. Dates of onset were unknown for 11 persons. Only six serum specimens had been collected in May at the time of the outbreak, but these as well as convalescent sera were tested for Norwalk virus antibodies. Four specimens had fourfold rises in titer to Norwalk virus and the remaining two had seroconverted from undetectable to low titers. Because no sera were available from well persons, further serologic testing was not done on them. Symptoms had been similar to those in other outbreaks of Norwalk gastroenteritis. The second outbreak was investigated prospectively. In July 1984, 117 persons (34%) in 60 households had a gastrointestinal illness. Only 2.5% of persons residing outside Braun Station were ill in July (p = 0.00001, chisquare test). No geographic clustering of households with ill persons was evident, and the ill persons ranged in age from 1 to 72 years with a mean of 32 years. Symptoms began during the week of 1 July in 53% and during the week of 8 July in 20%. Dates of onset of symptoms for the first ill persons are presented in Figure 1. The symptoms of persons in the 60 Braun Station households are presented in Table 1. Most had diarrhea and abdominal cramps that lasted from 1 to 25 days, with a mean of 6 days. No one was immunocompromised. No association was evident between pet ownership, exposure to farm animals, or swimming in the community pool and occurrence of diarrhea in July. There was, however, an inverse association between the occurrence of diarrheal illness in July and taking a vacation between 1 and 11 July. Twenty-one percent of persons who took a vacation in this period developed a diarrheal illness compared with 72% of those who remained in Braun Station (p = 0.00006, chi-square test). Analysis for each day during this interval indicated that absence from the community on July 2 was most protective (p = 0.01, chisquare test). A linear relation was seen between the proportion of total daily fluid intake of tap water or tap water equivalents (reconstituted frozen juices, instant iced tea, and powdered drinks) and the occurrence of diarrhea in July: the greater the proportion of daily fluid intake of tapwater, the higher the attack rates of diarrhea (p = 0.002, Mantel-Haenszel chi-square test for trend) (data not presented). Cryptosporidium oocysts were identified in the stools of 47 of 79 residents who became ill in July. Forty of these forty-seven persons had diarrhea, 12 had vomiting, 12 had fever, and 2 were asymptomatic. One was hospitalized. Only 12 of 194 stool specimens submitted by outpatients who did not reside in Braun Station but who were treated for gastroenteritis at the Wilford Hall Medical Center contained Cryptosporidium oocysts. Four of these persons had had person-to-person contact or drank tap water in Braun Station during July. Twenty-three stool specimens that contained Cryptosporidium oocysts were cultured for bacterial pathogens. Salmonella enteriditis was identified in 1 and Giardia lamblia cysts were identified in 5. Only 3 of the 32 Braun Station families with cryptosporidiosis had children in a day-care center. Forty-three persons with a stool positive for Cryptosporidium submitted at least one additional stool. Nineteen passed oocysts for at least 5 days and 9 passed oocysts for at least 20 days. One person continued to pass oocysts 30 days after his first positive specimen was submitted. Paired serum specimens were obtained from 12 residents with positive stool. None showed detectable titers to Cryptosporidium in acute specimens, but 9 developed titers of 1:40 or greater in convalescent specimens. Untreated water samples from wells in this part of Texas are not usually tested. Pretreatment water samples, however, were examined beginning in mid-June because of community complaints. Although chlorinated water samples collected from residences remained negative for coliforms, nine samples of untreated well water collected between 2 and 11 July contained fecal coliforms. Samples collected on 5 and 6 July contained 2600 and 1300 counts/100 mL, respectively. An order to boil water before drinking was issued on 11 July and remained in effect until the community was provided with an alternate water supply later that month. Subsequent water tests showed that dye introduced into the community's sewage system appeared in the well water. Attempts to identify the exact site of surface water or sewage contamination were unsuccessful.