We characterized an outbreak of acute diarrheal disease caused by group A rotavirus that occurred during the Autumn of 2005 in Malatya City, Turkey. A total 9907 patients between 0 to 91 years old (mean age: 25.05\u00b119.67) were included in the epidemic. The patients\u2019 data were prospectively collected and statistically analyzed. Microbiologic analyses were performed to determine the etiologic agent. Rapid onset diarrhea (98.36%), abdominal cramps (69%), fever (44.4%) and vomiting (69.6%) were the most common symptoms observed in patients. Rotavirus antigen was detected in 52.7% of the studied patients. RT-PCR analysis led to identification of Group A rotavirus as the causative agent of this epidemic. Simultaneous measurements of the drinking water samples yielded very low chlorine levels; as low as 0 to 0.05 mg/L. The outbreak investigation team indicated possible contamination of a large water depository from a water well, which supplies drinking water to two major districts of the city. Effective chlorination and blockage of the passage between the well and the water depository stopped the outbreak. This outbreak shows the high epidemic potency of rotavirus in large human populations, including all age groups, and underlines the importance of water safety in pipeline systems. On 21 November 2005, two state hospitals, one university hospital, and several primary care centers in Malatya City reported an unusual increase in acute diarrheal disease among the admitted patients coming from two large districts of Malatya. These patients presented with diarrhea (three or more liquid stools over a 24-h period), abdominal pain, fever and vomiting. The number of patients with this set of symptoms progressively increased; approximately 10000 patients with similar clinical symptoms applied to the health care centers by the end of the 14-day period. The Communicable Diseases Department of the Turkish Ministry of Health confirmed this report. Approximately 3250 stool samples (one sample er patient) were studied in different health institutes during the outbreak. In addition to bacteriologic cultures, these samples were also microscopically examined by the direct wet mount method to evaluate the presence of diarrhea-causing parasites. Trichrome and acid-fast staining were also performed in ambiguous cases. A total of 2931 water samples were received and analyzed in the Public Health Laboratory during the outbreak. Coliform bacilli growth were detected in only 26 water samples collected from different locations, which were not included the 2 affected districts, in the city settlements. However, certain intestinal pathogens, including Salmonella, Shigella, Vibrio cholorae, Campylobacter and toxigenic E. coli, did not grow from any of the samples. Chemical measurements of the water samples yielded normal ranges for many parameters, with the exception of FCC, which was as low as 0 to 0.05 mg/L in most districts (Figure 2). A total of 3250 stool samples were studied in the microbiology laboratories of various health institutes. Bacteriologic cultures were not indicative of a specific diagnosis. Stained and direct wet mount preparations were also negative for common pathogens. Erythrocytes were seen in 105 samples and a few neutrophilis were reported in samples obtained from 49 patients. A total of 1714 (52.7%) of the 3250 screened diarrheic stool samples were found to be positive for rotavirus antigen in a chromatographic rotavirus antigen immunoassay. Furthermore, RTPCR resulted in amplification of a 1062-bp DNA band that is indicative of Group A rotavirus in 33 of the 38 tested fecal samples. The PCR product photographed under UV light is shown in Figure 3.