Background: Over a period of 4 days between May 18-21, 1998, a multifocal outbreak of diarrhea, involving 175 Israel Defence Force soldiers and at least 54 civilians, occurred in the Golan Heights. Patients and Methods: Stool samples from 40 affected soldiers were collected for microbiological testing. In addition, a rapid PCR technique was employed for the direct detection of the heat-labile (LT) and heat-stable toxin (ST) genes of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) in stool samples. Results: All 40 stool specimens taken from patients with diarrhea was negative by culture. However, ETEC was detected in 16 stool specimens using the rapid PCR method. The epidemiological investigation found no association between the food items consumed prior to the onset of the outbreak and the attack rate of diarrhea. A review of the water distribution system revealed that all affected military posts and civilian communities were supplied by a common water pipeline. Water sampled from various points along the distribution system showed inadequate chlorination and high concentrations of E. coli. Conclusion: This report suggests that the involvement of ETEC in the etiology of waterborne diarrheal outbreaks may be underestimated, probably due to the difficulties involved in the laboratory identification of this enteropathogen. Adoption of our rapid method for the identification of ETEC, which is applicable to routine diagnostic laboratories, facilitates pathogen detection within hours, and allows early intervention in cases of widespread diarrheal epidemics. In total, 175 soldiers from six military camps were involved in this outbreak (Table 1). Attack rates for camps A, B, E and F were 30%, 8.4%, 3.3%, and 14%, respectively. We could not calculate attack rates for camps C and D as the majority of soldiers stationed at these camps were off base during the days preceding the epidemic. Israeli Ministry of Health reports cite at least 54 civilian cases in eight Communities located in the same geographic area. The exact number of affected civilians cannot be conclusively determined due to suspected under-reporting to local civilian health authorities. Figure 1 shows the temporal distribution of onset of morbidity over the 4 days during which new cases were identified. Six cases started on day 1, 42 cases on day 2 and 114 on day 3. On day 4 there was a dramatic decrease in the number of new cases [13] and no new morbidity was reported thereafter. The prevalence of symptoms among 147 affected soldiers from the three camps most heavily affected (A, B, and F) is shown in Table 2. Nearly 80% of all patients complained of nausea, with slightly fewer (76.2%) reporting abdominal pain. The next most common symptoms were diarrhea, vomiting and chills (63.3%, 53.7% and 48.3%, respectively). Relatively few soldiers had fever above 38 \u00b0C (12.9%) and none reported bloody stools. All 40 stool specimens taken from patients with diarrhea were negative by culture. None of the 13 stool specimens examined by RT-PCR were found to be positive for Norwalk virus genotypes G1 or G2. Of the 40 stool samples tested by PCR 16 were positive for ETEC. Six of these ETEC-positive samples harbored genes encoding for ST alone (ST+ LT-) and five for LT alone (ST- LT+), while five additional samples were positive for both ST and LT (ST+ LT+). All food specimens cultured were negative for Shigella, Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium perfringens. In total, 43 water samples were taken over a 2-day period from May 20-21. The samples were drawn from numerous taps at each of the affected military camps. Samples taken from the primary water treatment facility showed more than 200 coliform colonies per milipore filter (after passage of 100 ml tap water) and 120-130 colonies of E. coli. Samples drawn from all but one of the camps (camp A) were uniform in result, with more than 200 colonies of coliforms and E. coli per milipore filter. Samples from the civilian settelments revealed negative results for coliforms (data supplied by Israeli Ministry of Health). A review of the water distribution system revealed that potable water is supplied to all military camps within 220 square kilometers by local well drillings. This does not hold true for the six military posts and five civilian communities affected by the diarrheal epidemic. These 11 sites are supplied by an alternate common water source (Figure 2).The potable water supplied to these sites originates from a natural spring of the Banyas River. The spring water is pumped to a primary treatment facility, where it is chlorinated and filtered. After filtration the water is pumped to a 700 m3 reservoir, where it is distributed to the consumer via two lines: a southeastern line which supplies primarily civilian settlements, and a southwestern line which primarily supplies military bases in the area. An additional line branches northeast from the main artery that connects the treatment facility to the reservoir, and supplies water solely to consumers outside the affected area. All diarrheal cases were associated with consumption of potable water from the southeastern and southwestern distribution lines. There were no reports of diarrheal outbreaks among any of the military bases supplied by local well drillings. The epidemiological investigation revealed that consumption of potable water was the only potential exposure to the epidemic agent shared by all military units and civilian settlements involved in the outbreak. The joint examination of the delivery system showed no evidence of tampering, and there was no disruption of integrity along the line. Measurements taken on May 19 at distal consumer points within the military bases showed zero parts per million (ppm) residual chlorine. Measurements taken at the proximal primary treatment facility showed 0.4-0.5 ppm residual chlorine. These measurements are well below the IDF standard, which requires a chlorine concentration of 0.5 ppm at the distal user site. The low level of chlorination at the proximal source, coupled with the absence of illness along the proximal northeastern branch implicate the reservoir as the probable source of bacterial contamination, with resultant spread along the southeastern and southwestern branches it supplies. Records documenting the routine maintenance of water tanks in each of the affected military bases were examined. IDF standards require sanitization of storage tanks once yearly. Six of the seven tanks had been serviced within the previous 12 months. The tank in the camp with the most cases (camp A) had not been serviced during the preceding 36 months. A total of 20 follow-up water samples were drawn from all six sites after completion of rechlorination on May 24, and were sent for bacteriologic study.All cultures were negative. The investigative team found a satisfactory level of sanitation, except at camp A, where an incident of poor foodhandling was identified. At this base, the team revealed that prepared foods had been left unrefrigerated for longer than 2 h, in violation of Army Health Branch regulations. Despite this finding, however, case-control analysis of all consumed food items failed to incriminate any specific dish with an increased rate of diarrhea (95% CI of odds ratios for all food items included the value 1).