Background. The implementation of treated municipal water systems in the 20th century led to a dramatic decrease in waterborne disease in the United States. However, communities with deficient water systems still experience waterborne outbreaks. In August 2004, we investigated an outbreak of gastroenteritis on South Bass Island, Ohio, an island of 900 residents that is visited by 1500,000 persons each year. Methods. To identify the source of illness, we conducted a case-control study and an environmental investigation. A case was defined as diarrhea in a person who traveled to the island during the period from May 1 through 30 September 2004 and became ill within 2 weeks after the visit. Healthy travel companions served as matched control subjects. We also performed an environmental assessment and extensive testing of island water sources. Results. Among the 1450 persons reporting illness, Campylobacter jejuni, norovirus, Giardia intestinalis, and Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium were identified in 16, 9, 3, and 1 persons, respectively. We interviewed 100 case patients and 117 matched control subjects. Case patients were more likely to drink water on the island than control subjects (68% vs. 35%; matched odds ratio, 4.3; 95% confidence interval, 2.2-9.3). Sampling of ground water wells indicated contamination with multiple fecal microbes, including Escherichia coli, C. jejuni, Salmonella species, and Giardia species. Irregularities in sewage disposal practices that could have contaminated 
the underground aquifer were noted. Conclusions. The combined epidemiological and environmental investigation indicated that sewage-contaminated ground water was the likely source of this large outbreak. Long-term changes to the island\u2019s water supply and sewage management infrastructure are needed. During the period from 30 May through 8 September 2004, a total of 1450 residents of or visitors to South Bass Island reported a gastrointestinal illness. Twenty one patients (1%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported (table 1). Most case patients had symptom onset during the first week of August (figure 1). One thousand two hundred seventeen patients (84%) were Ohio residents; the remainder came from 25 additional US states, Canada, and England. Sixty-one percent were female. The median age was 40-years-old. Symptoms reported by patients included diarrhea (83%), abdominal cramps (80%), nausea (77%), vomiting (50%), fever (45%), and bloody diarrhea (5%). The median duration of illness was 4 days (range, 1-52 days) (table 1). One hundred case patients, including 8 (8%) with confirmed infections, and 117 control subjects were enrolled in the casecontrol study. Several water exposures were associated with illness (table 2). Case patients were more likely than control subjects to drink tap water on the island (68 [68%] vs. 41 [35%]; mOR, 4.3; 95% CI, 2.2-9.3). The same proportion of case patients and control subjects (37%) drank commercially bottled water on the island. However, case patients were more likely to drink from a water bottle filled with tap water on the island (19 [19%] vs. 7 [6%]; mOR, 6.0; 95% CI, 1.6-30.0) (table 2). Illness was strongly associated with consuming drinks containing ice on the island (72 [73%] vs. 62 [53%]; mOR, 7.1; 95% CI, 2.2-25.5). Fountain drinks, crushed ice drinks, and hot drinks prepared from either a well water source or from the municipal water supply were not significantly associated with illness (table 2). Using a conditional (matched) logistic regression model, a significant dose-response effect for drinking tap water on the island was also evident. Consumption of increased amounts of tap water on the island was associated with increased odds of becoming ill (table 3). People who drank 16 cups of tap water on the island were 65 times more likely to become ill than those who did not drink any water on the island (15 [15%] vs. 2 [2%]; mOR, 64.7; 95% CI, 5.4-778.0) (table 3). There was no single location where all the case patients drank tap water. Water was classified at each location as either well water or municipal water, depending on the source. When stratified by water source, both well water (34 [46%] vs. 17 [19%]; mOR, 4.7; 95% CI, 1.9-17.6) and municipal water (49 [53%] vs. 24 [22%]; mOR, 8.2; 95% CI, 2.9-25.3) appeared to be associated with illness. Contact with lake water, swimming in any pool, and the specific food items of interest were not significantly associated with illness. The environmental investigation documented that the municipal water treatment facility on 
the island was functioning properly. Cross-connections from auxiliary wells to the municipal water supply were identified and eliminated by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. Sixty (76%) of 79 private wells on the island tested positive for total coliforms, and 24 (30%) of 79 tested positive for E.coli. Seventeen (100%) of 17 businesses with noncommunity public wells had water samples that tested positive for total coliforms, and 12 businesses had samples that tested positive for E. coli. Campylobacter jejuni was cultured from 1 public water supply well. Sixteen of these 17 businesses were issued no-use orders on their wells by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency as a consequence of sampling results. The enteric viral indicators of fecal contamination, somatic coliphages, and F-specific coliphages were detected in well-water samples, as was the spore-forming bacterial indicator of fecal contamination, C. perfringens. In addition to C. jejuni, several other human pathogens were detected in well-water samples using PCR: Salmonella species, Cryptosporidium species (and, specifically, Cryptosporidium hominis), adenovirus, and enterovirus. A single Giardia intestinalis cyst was observed in 1 well-water sample but was not confirmed by molecular analysis. The geology of the island is such that 
wells receive ground water from a karst aquifer, consisting of fractured limestone, sinkholes, and underground caves (figure 2). This type of aquifer is very vulnerable to contamination. The environmental assessment demonstrated that contamination of the karst aquifer beneath the island had occurred from multiple land uses such as onsite septic systems, land application of septage, infiltration of land run-off, and, possibly, a direct hydraulic connection with Lake Erie [15]. The ODH laboratory tested 70 stool specimens for bacterial pathogens, 62 whole stool specimens for norovirus, and 67 stool specimens for parasitic agents. C. jejuni was identified in stool specimens obtained from 16 persons experiencing illness, norovirus in 9, G. intestinalis in 3, and Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium in 1. Two patients with confirmed C. jejuni infection were household contacts of other case patients infected with C. jejuni. The clinical specimens tested for enterotoxigenic E. coli and Shiga-toxin producing E. coli were all found to be negative. The clinical isolates sent to the CDC were identified as C. jejuni. Five C. jejuni isolates were subtyped by PFGE, and the resulting PFGE tif images were uploaded to the National Molecular Subtyping Network for Foodborne Disease Surveillance (PulseNet) for comparison. Four isolates were indistinguishable by SmaI and KpnI PFGE; 1 isolate had a different PFGE pattern. The PFGE pattern of the C. jejuni strain isolated from a raw wellwater sample differed from those of the clinical isolates. All 3 C. jejuni clinical isolates were susceptible to the 8 antimicrobial agents tested, with the exception of 1 isolate that showed intermediate resistance to erythromycin.