In the middle of October 1982 a large number of people living at Mjovik, a small community in the south-east of Sweden, fell ill after drinking municipal water contaminated with waste water. The epidemic curve showed one single outbreak without secondary cases. No pathogenic agents could be isolated from the water or sick persons. From some persons who fell ill again or did not recover new samples were taken and Giardia lamblia was then isolated from persons with remaining symptoms and previously affected persons. No parasite was found in persons without gastroenteritis. The outbreak at Mjovik was caused by at least 2 agents, 1 unidentified, with a short incubation time, contracted by 557 persons, and Giardia lamblia, with a longer incubation time, contracted by at least 56 persons. During the afternoon of the 16th of October 1982, a stoppage in the village sewer caused a backflow of sewage (Fig. 1). This stoppage was caused by roots penetrating the sewer. Not only were the cellars of the houses flooded but also the water-treatment plant at the village well. The outlet from the latter was directly connected to the municipal sewer. This faulty construction, which was 17 years old, was not known to the responsible personnel. A further complication was a leakage through an electric cable tube, which resulted in pollution of the well water by the intruding sewage. At an inspection the day before nothing noteworthy had been observed. The water-treatment plant was immediately closed, the water system emptied and the well chlorinated. No samples of water were saved. Drinking water was distributed from water tanks placed at several locations in the village, while water for use in toilets was obtained by connecting the ordinary water pipes to the main water supply of the Karlskrona community. Information about the event was circulated the same day by word of mouth between neighbours and by issuing a pamphlet. Not until the following day, however, was the news included in the radio programme.