In February 2001, episodes of acute gastroenteritis were reported to the Wyoming Department of Health from persons who had recently vacationed at a snowmobile lodge in Wyoming. A retrospective cohort study found a significant association between water consumption and illness, and testing identified Norwalk-like virus (NLV) in 8 of 13 stool samples and 1 well. Nucleotide sequences from the positive well-water specimen and 6 of the positive stool samples were identical. This multistrain NLV outbreak investigation illustrates the importance of NLV as a cause of waterborne illness and should encourage monitoring for NLVs in drinking water. In early February 2001, the Wyoming Department of Health began to receive reports of acute gastroenteritis from persons who had recently visited a snowmobile vacation lodge (lodge A) in Wyoming. Guests at lodge A often also visit 2 neighboring lodges (lodges B and C). Illness was characterized by nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea that were of brief duration. An investigation was conducted to determine the etiologic agent, examine exposures, and identify the mode of transmission. A retrospective cohort study was conducted among guests at lodges A and B; lodge C declined to participate in the epidemiological investigation. A list was obtained of all lodge guests with contact information who visited lodge A from 31 December 2000 through 9 March 2001 and who visited lodge B from 15 January through 15 February 2001. A smaller sample was chosen for lodge B guests, from what was perceived as the height of the outbreak, as a comparison cohort analysis and to rule out the possibility that lodge B was the source of the outbreak. Lodge guests were interviewed by telephone, using a standardized questionnaire. Interview questions covered symptoms, dates of illness, water and ice consumption, and a complete list of menu items served at the lodge A restaurant. A case of acute gastroenteritis was defined as development of vomiting or diarrhea (\u22653 loose stools within a 24-h period) in a guest of either lodge. Data were analyzed using Epi Info version 6.04d software (CDC) [11]. Of the 13 stool specimens collected from lodge guests who were ill, 8 (62%) tested positive for NLV by RT-PCR (4 of 4 stool specimens from case patients who lived in North Dakota, 2 of 2 from case patients who lived in Minnesota, and 2 of 7 from case patients who lived in Wyoming). The positive specimens from North Dakota and Minnesota all contained strains with an identical sequence and belonged to NLV genogroup II. The PCR products from viral RNA in the 2 positive specimens from Wyoming also belonged to NLV genogroup II, but each had a unique sequence. A total of 3 distinct sequence types were detected in the outbreak. No bacterial pathogens were identified in the stool samples that were examined. Seven of 8 well-water samples obtained from lodge A on 13 March 2001 tested positive for fecal coliforms. Testing of well water at lodges B and C showed no evidence of bacterial contamination. NLV was detected, using RT-PCR amplification techniques, in the 1MDS concentrate from a well-water sample collected on 19 March at lodge A. Three separate clones were sequenced, and all were identical in the 173-bp region between the primers, except for a single base insertion in 1 clone at nucleotide position 40. The consensus sequence without the insertion was identical to the corresponding portion of NLV genome that was amplified from the stool specimens collected from the North Dakota case patients on 20 and 21 February and from the Minnesota case patients on 14 and 16 March.