An outbreak of gastro-enteritis occurred in La Neuveville, township with 3358 inhabitants. A retrospective cohort study of 1915 participants showed that 1607 (84%) had been ill. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from 28 patient faecal samples, Shigella sonnei from 21 patients and small round structured viruses (SRSV) from 6 patients. More than one pathogen was identified in eight persons. The epidemic curve was characteristic of a point-source outbreak. The risk for illness was significantly higher among persons who had drank unboiled drinking water than among those who had not (1290 [80.3%] of 1607 vs. 86 [27.9%] of 308; RR = 2.87; 95% CI 2.40-3.45). Risk increased significantly with the quantity of water consumed (P<0.00*10-6). An SRSV isolate from water and one human faeces had an identical DNA sequence. The outbreak was due to a pump failure producing a spill of sewage into the groundwater. We conclude that transmission was waterborne and that measures including early warning, basic hygiene and sanitation improvements controlled this epidemic. Drinking water samples were examined in the Canton Laboratory for aerobic, mesophilic agents, E. coli and enterococci according to methods of the Swiss  Alimentary Codex [6], and separately for Shigella spp. and Salmonella spp. Samples were also examined in the Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bern, for enteroviruses and SRSV by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Stool samples were examined by standard methods for Gram-negative bacteria, Cryptosporidium spp. and other protozoa by direct microscopy and by RT-PCR for enteroviruses and SRSV. C. jejuni and S. sonnei isolates were confirmed by the National Center for Enteropathogens (NENT) where they were typed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of a flagellin gene and ribotyping respectively. A questionnaire was distributed to all households on 10 September 1998 for the retrospective cohort study. Demographic data (birth-date, sex, address), clinical characteristics (symptoms, onset of illness, physician and pharmacy visits, hospitalization) and exposure (drinking of unboiled water and quantity) were requested. The question on water quantity was phrased: between 24 August and 1 September 1998, how many times a day did you drink unboiled water from the faucet? Parents or guardians responded for children. As enterobacterial infections were suspected initially, a case was defined as: (a) present in La Neuveville between 24 August and 1 September 1998 and (b) inhabitant of La Neuveville with acute diarrhoea (probable case) or fever, flu-like symptoms (headache, myalgia), nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain (possible case). On Friday afternoon, 28 August 1998 the first patients sought medical attention in La Neuveville. On Saturday, 29 August 1998, the same physician who had reported the first outbreak in 1997, informed the office of the Canton Physician of some 20 patients with vomiting and diarrhoea. Because of his past experience he suggested contaminated drinking water as the possible source and so the Canton Laboratory collected samples from groundwater and water supply system, and ordered preventive manual chlorination of water in tanks. The first results of water analyses on Sunday, 30 August 1998, revealed faecal contamination of the whole water supply system, and of the groundwater (Table 2). On the same day, the population was advised to boil drinking water as a preventive measure. Since leakage of sewage was the suspected cause, the Canton Laboratory, the Office of Water Energy, responsible for the piping of drinking water, and the Office of Water Protection, responsible for sewage system, initiated further investigations. At the request of the Canton Laboratory, communal authorities distributed written instructions to all water subscribers on Monday, 31 August 1998. By chlorination and flushing, faecal bacteria were removed, so that on 10 September 1998 (i.e. 1 week after tapping neighbour communities supplies) drinking water of the whole water supply system in La Neuveville corresponded to legally required standards. On 12 September 1998 subscribers, after having flushed their house water taps, were allowed to use drinking water without any restriction. Repair work, upgrades (machinery for ultraviolet and continuous chlorination) and risk evaluation prescribed by Cantonal authorities were completed on 21 June 1999 and the community finally resumed use of its groundwater supply. One or more pathogens were isolated from 48 faecal samples: C. jejuni was recovered from 24 samples, S. sonnei 17 samples, both organisms on 4 occasions, SRSV 6 samples (2 alone and 4 co-infections) and enteropathogenic E. coli twice (once alone and the other with S. sonnei). Attack rates were similar in females (85%) and in males (82%), but children (\u226416 years) had a significantly higher (P<0.00*10-6) attack rate (Table 4).