Disruption of routine monitorization and chlorination of the water supply system during a week-long holiday led to a multi-organism gastroenteritis outbreak in a district with limited laboratory support. More than a 10-fold increase in patients with gastroenteritis was reported. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, Enteroaggregative E. coli, and norovirus were detected in human specimen samples. The main water tank and pipes were rusted; 13 out of the 19 water samples tested positive for total Coliform (1-920 colony-forming units (CFU)/100 ml) and E. coli (1-720 CFU/100 ml). Chlorine levels were below 0.2 ppm in seven of the nine samples. Information of 1,815 cases was obtained from the hospital records with a crude attack rate of 2.9%. Cases widespread in the district increased throughout the holiday, epidemic curve revealed a point-source outbreak. The case-control study revealed that consumption of drinking tap water and using it to clean vegetables/fruits were significantly associated with the illness. While drinking only bottled water had a protective effect against the illness. The culture technique showed that the water supply samples were positive for pathogenic bacteria. Upon decision in a multi-stakeholder meeting, the water tank was cleaned, and the Municipality initiated the renovation of the water supply system. Because the hospital could not perform analysis on stool samples, no samples were taken during the peak of the outbreak. We requested ER clinicians to take stool specimens for pathogenic bacteria (Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, and Yersinia) and enteric viruses (adenovirus, rotavirus, and norovirus) to be sent to the central laboratory. Six stool samples were taken. We obtained the results of six stool samples for culture and PCR. The culture result for one sample was positive for Enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC) and one for Enteroaggregative E. coli (EAgEC). In-house PCR results were negative for four specimens; one specimen was positive for Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and the other for EAgEC. Two samples were positive for norovirus among the three specimens tested using Biofire PCR. We held two multi-stakeholder meetings for multi-focal interventions. When the water supply is contaminated by pathogens, as in our situation, public health agencies and related sectors need to be actors in rapid detection and response to control waterborne outbreaks (Benedict 2017) Decisions were made as follows: to inform the public about the disease and related hygiene practices, to carry on routine chlorination and routine sampling uninterruptedly during holidays, to get samples from water tanks and endpoints outside of the routine sampling points until the end of the outbreak, to inspect and report what needs to be corrected and what is found to be inappropriate. The main water tank was cleaned and chlorinated according to the recommendations of the environmental health office consultants. A chlorine device was implemented in the secondary water tank. Family medicine practitioners informed their patients about the outbreak. We conducted health education on safe water consumption and hygiene practices to prevent household transmission. The public was advised not to use pools if they had gastroenteritis-related symptoms to prevent secondary infections. The environmental health unit collected 39 water samples outside the routine sampling points and the tanks after the interventions. All had adequate chlorine levels (.0.2 ppm) and no detected pathogens. Renewal of the main tank and water pipes has been initiated and progress is monitored. The district has not reported similar waterborne outbreaks on the early warning and response system\u2019s acute gastroenteritis surveillance component to this date.