Background: Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal disease caused by consuming contaminated food and water. The burden may remain underreported due to several issues like the low capacity of epidemiological surveillance systems, laboratory testing facilities, and socioeconomic disparities in urban slums. The disease has very short incubation period resulted in quick clustering of cases. Aim: A thorough outbreak investigation was carried out with the objective of strengthening the surveillance activity, finding out the sources of infection, and recommending necessary actions to control the outbreak immediately. Methods: An unusual increase in cases of diarrhoea was reported in slum area of Kalol town during the first week of July 2021. The stool samples were taken and investigated for confirmation and declaration of the outbreak by the Rapid Response Team. Time, place, and person distribution were carried out to generate a hypothesis and provide an immediate public health response to contain the outbreak. This study was conducted during the emergency public health response, no ethical approval was sought before the survey. Results: The cholera outbreak was confirmed when three out of five stool samples were positive for the bacterium V. cholerae O1 biotype El Tor serotype Ogawa. The overall attack rate and case fatality rate were 3.6% and 1.1%, respectively. The leakages caused the mixing of drainage water with the drinking water supply, which could be the possible cause of outbreak. Conclusion: The early identification and management of the cases, source reduction, health education on water chlorination, and hand hygiene were initiated based on our recommendations, which controlled the present outbreak. In initial phase, the transect walks were carried out for environmental and sanitary investigations in the affected area. During the transect walk, water quality, water supply sources, and information about drainage systems were collected by observing and interviewing the local community and the water supply department. Total of five random water samples were taken from the water source, i.e., overhead tank, underground pipes, and households, on July 5 2021. The RRT traced the index case back to the household, where we found leakage in drainage pipes contaminating the drinking water supply. The index case was a 5.5\u2011year male who presented with acute diarrhoea and vomiting on July 3, 2021 and was reported dead on July 5, 2021. The mean age of the reported cases was 30.9 (21.5 S.D.) years. Out of all 437 cases, 207 (47.4%) cases were belonged to the aged 16 to 47 years. The existing drinking water supply was closed temporarily for source reduction. Potable drinking water was supplied from nearby facilities using special water\u2011carrying tankers in outbreak\u2011affected areas. A total of 14217 oral rehydration therapy (ORS) packets and 81840 chlorine tablets were distributed in the affected area with demonstration of its use by front\u2011line health workers. The bacteriological examination of the drinking water sample was also carried out and also it was tested for residual chlorine. The positivity rate for the chlorine test was observed to increase from a baseline of 26.7% to 72% at the outbreak\u2019s end. In the water distribution system, total of 12 leakages were identified in the affected geography and repaired during the first week of the outbreak, that is, July 7, 2021 to July 15, 2021. Super chlorination and overhead tank cleaning were carried out daily through intersectoral coordination with the water supply and town planning department.