Study objectives - To investigate whether exposure to tap water contaminated in a major river pollution incident with 2 ethyl 5,5 dimethyl 1,3 dioxane (EDD) and 2 ethyl 4 methyl 1,3 dioxolane (EMD) was associated with an increase of self-reported symptoms. To assess the extent of association between noticing the water had an unusual taste or odour and self-reported symptoms. Design - Retrospective cohort study. Setting - A city and two nearby towns in a semi-rural area of England, UK. Participants - A total of 3861 people who replied to a postal questionnaire asking about symptoms and water consumption sent to a sample of 1000 households in each of three areas - one area supplied with contaminated water (study group) and two control areas that were unaffected (control groups). Main results - The household response rates were 65% for the study group and 56% and 57% for the two control groups. Self-reporting of 10 individual symptoms was significantly increased in the study group compared with controls. Within the study group, reporting of one or more symptoms was significantly higher in subjects who consumed contaminated water but not among subjects who used it to wash or cook. Subjects who drank contaminated water showed a dose-response relationship for self-reporting of one or more symptoms and for seven individual symptoms. Within the study group, however, only 62% (867 of1398 subjects) noticed that the water had an unusual taste or odour. Among subjects who did not notice that the water had an unusual taste or odour, no association was found between drinking contaminated water and reporting one or more symptoms, or between drinking contaminated water and reporting of individual symptoms, although a dose-response relationship was shown between the amount of water consumed and self-reporting of nausea. Among subjects who noticed the water had an unusual taste or odour, both an association and a dose-response relationship were found between consumption of contaminated water and the -self reporting of six symptoms - diarrhoea, nausea, headache, stomach pains, skin irritation, and itchy eyes. Conclusions - Higher rates of symptom reporting were associated with the water contamination incident. Reported symptoms seemed, however, to be associated with the ability to detect an unusual taste or odour in the water. Because concentrations of the contaminants would be expected to be evenly distributed in the tap water in the affected area, irrespective of taste or odour, and because of the known toxicity of the parent compounds of EMD and EDD, it is concluded that the increase in self-reported symptoms in the study group respondents was associated with noticing the unpleasant taste or odour of the tap water and not with the chemical contamination. It is concluded that the observed increase in reporting of nausea with increasing water consumption was due to public anxiety caused by the incident but did not pose a serious risk to the public's health. The increase in self-reported symptoms in the area affected by the contamination was an important reminder of the wider health implications of 'health scares'. During the morning of Friday 15 April 1994, the local water company received a considerable increase in the number of complaints from the public concerning an unusual taste and odour in the drinking water in Worcester city. Initially unidentified organic chemical contaminants were detected in very low concentrations in the consumer drinking water leaving the water treatment works at Barbourne in Worcester where water is abstracted from the River Severn. People in Worcester were advised through local media releases from 12.25 pm on Friday not to drink the water and this advice was extended to include affected areas south of Worcester in the afternoon and evening. The population of Evesham was initially advised not to use the water, but once the area of contamination had been confirmed, this advice was withdrawn. An estimated 160 000 people were living in the affected area and bowsers were deployed to provide an emergency water supply throughout Worcester city and affected towns and villages. The public were advised they could drink the water again at 5.15 pm. on Saturday 16 April after toxicology advice which confirmed that chemicals in this class were not expected to be harmful to health  A total of 111 people reported either to the help line set up by the health authority, their GP, or the accident and emergency department that they had symptoms over the weekend attributed to use of tap water. Reported symptoms were mainly nausea and headache.