An outbreak of acute gastroenteritis involving 249 persons, 32% of whom were hospitalized, occurred on a U.S. Army installation in 1990. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from 81 of 163 (50%) persons cultured. Seventeen isolates of C. jejuni available for serotyping were Lior serotype 5. The outbreak remained restricted to one recruit barracks area and adjacent Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps cadet barracks. Infection of sequential cohorts of recruits over an interval of 3 weeks suggested a continuing or intermittent common source. Contaminated food was not implicated because affected persons ate at separate dining facilities and other facilities with the same food sources had no associated illnesses. Th ere was a strong association between the amount of water consumed by recruits and risk of diarrhea (chi-square test for trend, p<0.001). Samples of drinking water collected in the affected area had no residual chlorine and when cultured yielded greater than 200 colonies of coliform bacteria per 100 mL of water sampled. Although Campylobacter was not isolated from water, living and dead birds were found in an elevated water storage tank providing drinking water to the affected area. This and other similar outbreaks indicate that contamination of water storage tanks can lead to large outbreaks of Campylobacter enteritis. This report describes an outbreak of enteritis that occurred primarily among recruits and cadets living in adjacent barracks areas at Fort Knox, KY, between 22 May and 14 June 1990. This outbreak, caused by C. jejuni of a single serotype, exhibited many features of transmission associated with a common source of drinking water. The outbreak was first recognized when 17 recruits from the reception barracks area were admitted to the post hospital with acute gastroenteritis on 27 and 28 May. Isolation of C. jejuni from stool specimens from several recruits resulted in an investigation focused initially on the local dining facility. Shortly thereafter, additional cases of acute diarrhea were recognized in an adjacent barracks area housing Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) cadets. Initially, 46 recruits with acute gastroenteritis (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, or abdominal cramps with or without fever) with onset since arrival at Fort Knox were included in the investigation. All ill recruits had arrived on post aft er 21 May. Rectal swabs (one or two per person) were taken for culture of enteric bacteria, including Campylobacter. Recruits of one company (n=141) chosen because of its availability and a high diarrhea attack rate (69.5%), completed questionnaires regarding the type and amount of oral fluids (milk, water, soda, etc.) consumed in the reception area. A total of 249 persons fit a case definition of acute gastroenteritis with onset between 22 May and 14 June. Cases were predominantly males (92%), and the average age was 20.2 (\u00b15.4 SD) years; 86% were recruits or cadets. Other military and civilian personnel comprised the remainder of cases. Figure 2 illustrates the progression of the outbreak from its origin among the recruits to the involvement of the cadets. A total of 79 persons with gastroenteritis were admitted to the post hospital for a median of 3 days (range 1-13) during this period. Inpatients were more likely than outpatients to have stool or rectal swab cultures positive for Campylobacter (70% vs. 39%, p=0.0005), and more severe illness, with fever (44.6% vs. 19.6%, p<0.0001), and headache (36.5% vs. 23.1%, p=0.03). Stool or rectal swabs from 81 of 163 persons cultured were positive for Campylobacter. No other bacterial pathogens were isolated. C. jejuni was cultured from persons with onset of illness between 24 May and 13 June. A total of 17 isolates remained viable for serotyping; all were found to be Lior serotype 5.