A large outbreak of Campylobacter jejuni Gastroenteritis attributed to contamination of an unchlorinated municipal water system was investigated. Unlike most previous summer outbreaks, this one began in early spring and was attributed to meltwater entering one or more municipal wells. 241 suspected cases were documented but retrospective information from local healthcare workers suggested a much larger outbreak. 45 laboratory-confirmed cases participated in a case-control study which showed a significant association between infection and amount of town water consumed. Stool specimens from 29 patients were studied with detailed serotyping by the method of Lior, with eight known serotypes and one previously unknown one identified. It is concluded that intensive surveillance of water quality during periods of spring runoff is essential and that timely reporting of disease  outbreak patterns in emergency department settings is necessary to protect the public's health. We report an epidemiologic investigation of a large outbreak of gastroenteritis in a southern Ontario town in early April 1985, which was subsequently attributed to C. jejuni contamination of a municipal water system. In accordance with Ontario's environmental guidelines, the town's drinking water supply was routinely screened weekly for total and fecal coliforms at the working wellheads, the water tower, and approximately 8 locations throughout town, which varied weekly. On March 20 and 27, two separate locations in town indicated marginal contamination of 10 fecal coliforms per litre. On April 3, all but one of the 12 sampling sites indicated heavy contamination, from 20 to 220 fecal coliforms per litre. Repeat testing on April 6 indicated continuing contamination of one well at a level greater than 600 fecal coliforms per litre. This well, one of two subsequently recognized to be near a surface water runoff channel, was then shut down; at the same time (April 7th), chlorination of the town's water supply and a 'boil water' order were instituted. On April 8, the medical officer of health was informed of an increase in cases of gastroenteritis being seen in the emergency department of the town's only hospital. The hospital laboratory was also reporting an unusually high frequency of stool cultures positive for Campylobacter jejuni. To define the scope and source of this outbreak of gastroenteritis, several sources of data were used: hospital emergency room and laboratory records, and physicians' office records, as well as interviews with local primary care physicians. A suspected case of C.jejuni gastroenteritis was defined as a person who, between March 29 and April 17, developed more than one episode of vomiting and/or diarrhea (i.e. watery stools) within a 24-hour period. As an additional criterion; the individual also had to have been in the town between March 28 and April 7, 1985. A confirmed case of C. jejuni gastroenteritis also had C. jejuni isolated from one or more stool specimens.