An outbreak of gastro-enteritis occurred in a community of 2213 persons located near the city of Ioannina, in North-western Greece. Two hundreds and eighty-eight inhabitants of the village of Eleoussa, suffered from gastro-enteritis between 11 and 22 October. The peak of the epidemic occurred during the first 3 days (11-13 October). The highest risk of developing gastro-enteritis was observed in the age group 0-14 years (41.4%) and decreased significantly with age (P<0.01). Patients over 65 years were more frequently hospitalized than those in other age groups (P<0.05). Shigella sonnei was isolated from both, water samples and faeces of patients. Control measures were implemented on the second day of the outbreak. Environmental conditions suggest that contamination of the water system occurred by groundwater. In 1996, a community water system served almost the whole population of the town, using groundwater from a single borehole as one source. The system was not regularly chlorinated. The sewage network was in a satisfactory condition. One 300-ml water sample was collected about four times per year, as routine, and submitted to the Laboratory of Hygiene of the University of Ioannina, which tested the samples for total and faecal coliforms using the membrane filtration method [6]. The first day after the outbreak had been recognized (11 October 1996) the Laboratory of Hygiene collected three samples from the water distribution system, one sample from the tank, and one sample from the pumping station. On 13 October a 1-l sample was collected from the pumping station. This sample was filtered and tested for the presence of salmonella and shigella, using an enrichment technique with sterile 0-1% peptone water. Serological identification was performed using the slide agglutination technique with shigella antisera (polyvalent and type-specific sera) [6, 7]. The identification of the responsible micro-organism was based on a sample from the pumping station because local authorities proceeded to an immediate chlorination of the water-distribution system and the tank. Water samples were also collected and analysed during the next 15 days. The sources used to identify cases were in- and outpatients suffering from gastro-enteritis illness, and referred to the General Hospital of Ioannina as well as to the University Hospital of Ioannina. All patients suffering from gastro-enteritis, resident in the community of Eleoussa and referred as in- or out-patients between 11 and 22 October 1996 have been recorded. No community cases of gastro-enteritis had been referred in the community 5 days before and 5 days after this time period. The impact of the outbreak in terms of morbidity and health services utilization was important. There were at least 288 cases of gastro-enteritis in the community of Eleoussa between 11 and 22 October, an attack rate of 13.4%. Ninety-one patients (33.1% were hospitalized. No deaths occurred).