A cohort study was undertaken to determine the source of an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness affecting a number of military personnel at ITC, Brecon during the period 19-30 March 2004. Of 105 soldiers on a field training exercise over the period 15-19 March 2004, 36 subsequently developed symptoms. Nine patients had Campylobacter sp identified in their stool. Water was provided from a single source. This water was used for washing, shaving, drinking and the preparation of rations. Although not statistically significant, epidemiological investigation suggests that the water may have been the vehicle of infection. The Infantry Training Centre (ITC) at Brecon provides a number of courses for Infantry Officers throughout the year. The Platoon Commander's Battle Course (PCBC) is designed for recently commissioned subalterns who are joining Infantry Battalions. In addition, newly commissioned RAF Officers who are joining the RAF Regiment attend the course as well as a number of overseas students. The students are divided into 3 platoons. The course is run by the Platoon Commanders Division (PCD) at ITC, Brecon. In March 2004 the Health Unit at AMD was informed of an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness amongst the students on PCBC 0303, following Exercise DARK MIST/SHORT DASH that took place during the period 15-19 March 2004 on Sennybridge Training Area (SENTA). In addition, a number of Directing Staff (DS) of the PCD who were on the exercise were also exhibiting similar gastrointestinal symptoms. A cohort study was undertaken utilising a questionnaire that was drawn up using EpiInfo 6.04 software, and data were entered onto a laptop computer. The information collected was: Demographic data (e.g. name, age, rank, date of birth, platoon number). Information about water consumption on exercise. Information about food consumption. Symptoms suffered. Onset date of symptoms. Information about hand-washing practices on exercise. A case definition was formulated: 'Any person presenting during the period 19-30 March 2004 with diarrhoea or any two symptoms from abdominal pain, fever or nausea'. Microbiological sample from cases Stool samples were sent from those individuals meeting the case definition (36 people) for microscopy and culture. About half of these samples were taken after individuals had ceased to be symptomatic. The samples were analysed for enteric pathogens by routine bacteriological methods. Water samples were taken on 31 March 2004, for microbiological analysis, by a civilian sub-contractor. The commonest symptom was diarrhoea (35 people), followed by abdominal pain (24 people). Other symptoms reported included nausea, fever, and vomiting. Four people reported blood in their stool. Microbiological analysis of the water sample taken on 31 March 2004 indicated no coliforms or Campylobacter. Previous results of routine testing of the water indicated that it was free of coliforms in previous months. The water company responsible for the treatment of the water, reported that chlorine levels at \u201cThe Elephant's Trunk\u201d, although in the range set by national standards, were lower than the company wished and they would increase the level of chlorination to the upper part of the range. It was stated that it was company policy to maintain levels in the upper part of the range, although levels in the lower part of the range were sufficient to disinfect the water. In this outbreak there was an attack rate of 34% and this had an effect of halting of training on the PCBC for those affected, with the possibility of a number of personnel missing the important final exercise of the course in Kenya. An outbreak such as this on operations can significantly reduce the effectiveness of units with added workload for those not affected. It is important to ensure that water provided to troops, either on exercise or operations, has come from a reliable source that is subject to regular monitoring at periods that can identify intermittent contamination to make sure that outbreaks such as this do not occur.