In November 2003, an outbreak (41 cases; attack rate-4.3%; no deaths) of severe diarrhoea was reported from a village in Orissa, eastern India. Thirteen of these cases were hospitalized. A matched case-control study was conducted to identify the possible exposure variables. Since all wells were heavily chlorinated immediately after the outbreak, water samples were not tested. The cases were managed symptomatically. Descriptive epidemiology suggested clustering of cases around one public well. Vibrio cholerae El Tor O1, serotype Ogawa was isolated from four of six rectal swabs. The water from the public well was associated with the outbreak (matched odds ratio: 12; 95% confidence interval 1.2-44.1). On the basis of these conclusions, access to the well was barred immediately, and it was protected. This investigation highlighted the broader use of field epidemiology methods to implement public-health actions guided by epidemiologic data to control a cholera epidemic. On 14 November 2003, a primary health centre in Dhenkanal district, Orissa, Eastern India, reported a cluster of acute, severe diarrhoea with dehydration among adults in the village of Parbatia to the district public-health authorities. The population of the village in 2003 was 946. Cholera was suspected in the diagnosis. On 15 November 2003, an epidemiologist from the FETP assigned to the state of Orissa initiated an investigation and arrived in the village in the morning to investigate the outbreak. The objectives of the investigation were to characterize the agent, describe the persons affected, identify the source of infection, and formulate practical recommendations for control. Four of the six rectal swabs grew V. cholerae El Tor O1, serotype Ogawa. To summarize, more safer, protected wells will be needed in Orissa and in India to control cholera in the longer term. Standardized indicators of the millennium will allow monitoring progress towards these objectives in the future. The broader use of field epidemiology methods should also help us track the various modes of transmission of cholera in the country so that all modes of transmission are addressed with adapted, evidence-based interventions.