On 23 August 2013, the District Medical and Health Officer of Medak district in Andhra Pradesh informed the state surveillance unit about a cluster of diarrheal disease with three deaths at Ranzole village (population = 6,556). We investigated this cluster to confirm the etiology, identify risk factors, and make recommendations for prevention. We defined a case of acute diarrhea as the occurrence of \u22653 loose watery stools in a day among residents of Ranzole between August 15 and September 12, 2013. Trained community health workers conducted house to house case search to identify the case patients. Stool samples were collected from 10 case-patients meeting the case definition. Water specimens were collected from all water sources in the village and were sent for water quality testing. All the tube-wells in six localities of the village were enumerated and water samples were collected from all the 21 tube-wells for bacteriological examination. We hypothesized that the outbreak was associated with drinking water from unprotected tube-wells which were in the vicinity of open defecation sources. To test this hypothesis, we conducted a retrospective cohort study. Household members drinking water from such tube-wells were considered as exposed and the remaining villagers as unexposed. We identified 218 case patients of acute diarrhea with an attack rate of 3.3%. Three case patients died (case fatality ratio: 1.4%). All the age groups were affected with higher attack rates among children aged 5-14 years (5.7%) and those aged 60 years and above (6%). Males had higher attack rates compared to female [Table 1]. The index case patient, aged 60 years was hospitalized for severe dehydration on 16 August 2013. Subsequently, the number of cases in the village increased and peaked on 23 August 2013. The number of cases declined following chlorination of water sources, supply of alternate source of water and temporary closure of the unprotected tube-wells. The shape of the epidemic curve suggested a common source outbreak with continuous exposure [Figure 1]. The cases were clustered in four of the six localities (locality 1-4) of the village, with attack rates ranging between 2.5 and 9.6%. No cases were reported from locality 5 and 6 [Table 2]. One of the 10 stool specimens was culture positive for V. cholera, serogroup O1 El Tor, while the other nine did not grow any pathogen on thiosulfate-citrate-bile salts-sucrose (TCBS) agar. The water specimens collected from four of the 21 tube-wells (numbers: 1, 5, 7, and 10) had high coliform counts.