Background: Cholera continues to remain endemic in over 50 countries and has caused large epidemics with around 3-5 million cases occurring every year in Asia alone. In India, cholera is endemic in many states. However, etiological information and age-specific incidence related to cholera outbreaks is limited. In November 2013, district authorities reported a cluster of diarrheal disease among residents of Medipally to the state surveillance unit. We investigated this cluster to confirm its etiology, describe its magnitude, identify potential risk factors, and make recommendations for control. Findings: A house-to-house active search was conducted to identify cases of acute diarrhea and collect information on drinking water source. Drinking water samples were collected from common water sources and sampled households to test for bacteriological quality. Ten stool samples were collected for culture. A matched case-control study was conducted to identify the risk factors. A total of 138 case-patients of diarrhea (Attack rate: 11.5/100; Population: 15 1,200) and 1 death (Case Fatality Ratio: 0.72/100) were identified. Five of the 10 stool samples were culture positive for V. cholerae, serogroup O1 El Tor. Drinking water from the overhead tank [Adjusted OR (AOR): 31.94, 95 % CI: 7.3-139.5] was associated with risk of developing illness. Conclusions: This outbreak affected nearly 11% of the village population and was due to contamination of the main drinking water source. Outbreaks such as this can be prevented by constructing the drain away from the water pipelines and by monitoring regular chlorination of drinking water source and inspection of pipelines for damage. Five of the ten rectal swabs were culture positive for V.cholerae, O1 El Tor. Five of seven water samples (one from the overhead tank, one from the water-tap receiving water from the overhead tank, and three from stored water from households) had the Most Probable Number (MPN) count higher than the permissible level (10 MPN/100 ml) [8] and hence were considered unsafe for drinking. Two samples (one from the functional ground water hand pump and one form the stored water from household) had no coliforms and hence were potable. The attack rate in area-1 (10.6 %; 94 of 887) was more than that of area-2 (7.2 %; 44 of 613, p = 0.02). An open drain, measuring about 150 m was running alongside the water pipelines pumping ground water into the overhead tank. On close inspection of the drinking water pipelines, we observed that the main pipeline had a breakage near the valve and there was stagnation of sewage water around the pipeline. The sanitary conditions in the village were poor; most population practiced open defecation, the drainage system was of open type and was clogged within the vicinity of dwelling.