Cryptosporidium is a leading global cause of waterborne disease, with many reported outbreaks related to main water supplies. In August 2019, an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis involving 80 cases occurred among 114 vacationers in a small municipality located in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, north-eastern Italy. After excluding a potential food-borne outbreak, the epidemiological investigation focussed on the hypothesis of a waterborne outbreak. This was confirmed by the finding of Cryptosporidium oocysts in stools of the cases and in water samples from the municipal water network. Molecular characterisation revealed the zoonotic species Cryptosporidium parvum as the causative agent. A single subtype (IIdA25G1) was found among all cases, and in one of two positive water samples. The municipality's water supply used spring water that only received a disinfection treatment insufficient to inactivate the parasite. Possible entry means into the water mains were found through further environmental investigations. As these types of water supplies are particularly vulnerable 
to various environmental factors, a control system based on the risk assessment of each phase of the water supply chain is required to guarantee water safety. Effective methods for detection of protozoan pathogens, which are generally excluded from routine water supply analysis, should be applied. On 5 September 2019, a hospital in the province of Modena, north-eastern Italy, notified to the Public Hygiene Service (PHS) of Modena two cases of suspected food-borne disease, which occurred in two children (aged ca 12-14 years). The two children had been hospitalised on 4 September with gastroenteritis. They were part of a group of 99 people (Group A) who 
had been staying in a municipal hostel in a small town in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines from 25 to 31 August. In the notification, the hospital informed of the possible presence of further cases of gastroenteritis among other group members. On 12 September 2019, preliminary results of the epidemiological survey were presented to the municipal administration and initial measures were called for, including provisions of bottled water for children and hospitalised patients over 65 years of age, pending the results of the analyses of water samples. On 19 September, after the identification of Cryptosporidium oocysts in the distribution water supply, the local health authority issued a boil water advisory. Immediately thereafter, the task force set up by the municipality implemented the following measures: (i) analytical controls on the microbiological quality of the spring water, (ii) suspension of supply from springs with non-compliant analytical data and in a poor state of maintenance, (iii) extraordinary cleaning and sanitisation of the tanks, (iv) additional chlorination at the tank collecting water from Springs 1 and 2 and (v) sanitisation of the pipelines from the collection tank to the main tank, and of the distribution pipes.