An outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred in a village on the Island of Crete, with 1479 inhabitants. One hundred and thirty-eight symptomatic patients from 57 different families were examined. Thirty percent of children under 12 years were affected compared with 4% of adolescents and adults (P < 0-000 1). Thirty-five out of 105 stool cultures (33%) grew Shigella sonnei. Thirty-four isolates had the same susceptibility pattern and were sensitive to ampicillin, while one was resistant to this antibiotic. Thirty-three isolates had the same plasmid profile. Based on epidemiologic and environmental findings, it was concluded that the transmission of shigellosis was waterborne. Shigella were not isolated from water, but one of the three village springs was found to be contaminated with faecal coliforms. This spring was probably contaminated by sewage material, due to its proximity to a source of untreated sewage effluent. Implementation of environmental and control measures brought the epidemic to an end. On 27 December the local doctor and the mayor of the village notified the local Public Health Department of an escalating problem of diarrhoeal disease among the villagers, and that the majority of the patients did not seek medical treatment. They reported that on an empirical basis they had implicated the village's water supply and, on 24 December, took water samples for examination from the village's fountains and the central tank and then chlorinated the water in the tank. On the same date the valley fountain, which was known to have had some degree of contamination in the past, was isolated from the village's water supply network. From the beginning of the epidemic villagers residing in households with a case of diarrhoeal illness began drinking boiled or bottled water, because they empirically identified the water as the source of the problem. On 28 December 1990 an investigation of the outbreak was begun in the village. A list of suspected cases was compiled from information supplied by the mayor, the local doctor, relatives and neighbours of the patients. Additionally, all villagers were instructed to contact the investigating team if they had experienced diarrhoeal disease. These names were added to the list of suspected cases. One hundred and forty-eight villagers were considered suspected cases and interviewed. One hundred and thirty-eight persons, from 57 different households, who developed diarrhoeal disease between 11 December 1990 and 9 January, 1991 were considered to have shigellosis. Water specimens from the two hill fountains, the central tank and village house taps, collected before chlorination, on 24 December, did not reveal any coliforms, while water from the valley fountain revealed contamination by total coliforms (MPN 60/100 ml water) and faecal coliforms (MPN 20/100 ml water). Shigella were not isolated from any water specimens collected from the contaminated valley fountain, the other two hill fountains, the central tank or the tap water from the village houses.