Study objective: To determine the source and the extent of a community wide outbreak of gastroenteritis. Design: A matched case-control study with postal questionnaires. Subtyping of campylobacter strains by pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Setting: A rural municipality with a population of 8600 in southern Finland, August 2000. Two thirds of the population receive non-chlorinated ground water from the municipal water supply. Participants: Cases were randomly selected among residents of the municipality who contacted the municipal health centre because of gastroenteritis and had illness onset between 31 July and 20 August 2000. Community controls were identified from the population registry and matched according to sex, year of birth, and postal code. Main results: Four hundred and sixty three persons contacted the municipal health centre because of gastroenteritis. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from stool samples of 24 persons. One hundred and thirty seven cases and 388 controls were enrolled in the case-control study. In multivariate analysis, drinking unboiled water from the municipal supply was significantly associated with illness (odds ratio 11.1, 95% confidence interval 1.4 to 90.2). C jejuni was isolated from one tap water sample. The water isolate and all but one of the patient isolates were indistinguishable by PFGE. Conclusions: Combining epidemiological investigation with molecular subtyping methods provided strong evidence that water was the source of the outbreak. Non-chlorinated small ground water systems may be susceptible to waterborne outbreaks and constitute a risk to rural populations. Municipality A is located about 100 km north east from Helsinki in southern Finland. Two thirds (5500) of its 8600 population live in the centre. On 3 August, six patients with diarrhoea, abdominal pain, and fever contacted the municipal health centre. The environmental health unit was contacted, and samples from the non-chlorinated municipal water system were collected on 4 August. Initial results indicated no coliforms in the drinking water. During the next days, additional persons with gastrointestinal symptoms contacted the health centre, and had stool samples taken. On 9 August, C jejuni was isolated from three patients. The next day, the National Public Health Institute (KTL) was notified of the outbreak. Interviews of initial patients suggested that the outbreak might be waterborne. Therefore, on 11 August, a boil water notice was issued and chlorination of the water supply system began on 12 August. Four hundred and sixty three persons who had gastroenteritis with illness onset between July 25 and August 25 contacted the health centre compared with the baseline of an average 20 monthly cases of gastroenteritis. Median age was 41 years (range 1-96 years), and 62% were women. The epidemic curve (fig 1) shows that the first patients became ill with gastroenteritis during the last days of July. The overall attack rate in the municipality according to the number of contacts to the health centre was 4.2%. The median age of both cases and controls was 46 years (range 5-89), and 35% were men. The symptoms were typical for campylobacter gastroenteritis, predominantly diarrhoea, and many cases had fever (table 1). The median duration of symptoms was six days (range 1-40). Seventy six cases (67%) were absent from work because of illness for a median of three days (range 1-30). Forty two cases (39%) consulted a physician, and nine were hospitalised. Median duration of hospitalisation was 5.5 days (range 1-8). Treatment was prescribed to 38 (34%) cases, and 27 (24%) received antibiotics. Forty three (41%) cases had other persons with gastroenteritis in the household during the outbreak period, compared with 29 (12%) of 235 controls (p,0.001). C jejuni was cultured from 24 (32%) of 74 stool samples submitted for examination from patients with gastroenteritis. No other pathogens were isolated. C jejuni was recovered from one tap water sample collected on 10 August at a day care centre. No coliforms were isolated from water samples.