In September 2018 in Brescia province, northern Italy, an outbreak of Legionnaires' disease (LD) caused by Legionella pneumophila serogroup 2 
(Lp2) occurred. The 33 cases (two fatal) resided in seven municipalities along the Chiese river. All cases were negative by urinary antigen test (UAT) and most 
were diagnosed by real-time PCR and serology. In only three cases, respiratory sample cultures were positive, and Lp2 was identified and typed as sequence type 
(ST)1455. In another three cases, nested sequence-based typing was directly applied to respiratory samples, which provided allelic profiles highly similar to ST1455. An environmental investigation was undertaken immediately and water samples were collected from private homes, municipal water systems, cooling towers and the river. Overall, 533 environmental water samples were analysed and 34 were positive for Lp. Of these, only three samples, all collected from the Chiese river, were Lp2 ST1455. If and how the river water could have been aerosolised causing the LD cases remains unexplained. This outbreak, the first to our knowledge caused by Lp2, highlights the limits of UAT for LD diagnosis, underlining the importance of adopting multiple tests to ensure that serogroups other than serogroup 1, as well as other Legionella species, are identified. In 2018, between the end of August and the first 2 weeks of October, a sudden increase of LD cases was reported in Brescia province, most notably in seven municipalities located along the Chiese river. Within the first few days of September, the Agency for Health Protection of the Brescia province was notified of 665 pneumonia cases requiring hospitalisation. Cases were immediately tested for Legionella by urinary antigen test (UAT), which gave negative results in more than 90% of cases. Only after real-time PCR was performed on respiratory secretions of UAT-negative cases was L. pneumophila detected. When respiratory secretions were available, culture examination was also requested. Immediately, a multidisciplinary team, which consisted of public health professionals, epidemiologists, medical doctors and microbiologists, was established to conduct epidemiological and environmental investigations to identify the source of the outbreak and to adopt the needed control measures. The objective of our report is to describe epidemiological, environmental and microbiological investigations and report factors that contributed to the outbreak. The first LD case was detected 30 August 2018. The epidemiological investigation started few days later, on the first day of September and lasted until 18 October 2018. Since Legionella was the pathogen most suspected to cause the outbreak, an outbreak case definition was formulated to distinguish LD from pneumonia of a different origin. A case of LD was included in the outbreak if they resided in Brescia province, presented with clinical symptoms of pneumonia and had laboratory confirmation for Legionella with at least one diagnostic test, according to the EU case definition [15]. Cases were required to answer a standardised questionnaire addressing health conditions (presence of chronic diseases, smoking and alcohol habits, corticosteroids therapy and/or chemotherapy), places visited and routes travelled within their town vicinity, as well as usual social activities. The cases were mapped using a geographic information system to detect spatial movement patterns. Following the alert that the increase in pneumonia cases was attributable to Legionella infection, medical staff of all hospitals in Brescia province were asked to collect urine, respiratory secretions and sera from all cases admitted with pneumonia in order to test for LD. UAT (Legionella K-SeT, Coris Bioconcept, Gembloux, Belgium), culture of respiratory secretions 
or pulmonary tissues, real-time PCR and serology were used to diagnose cases. Culture examination was carried out using agar plates with buffered charcoal yeast extract (BCYE-\u03b1; Thermo Fisher Scientific, Altrincham, United Kingdom (UK)) and selective antibiotic medium Modified Wadowsky\u2013Yee (MWY) with BCYE growth supplement (Thermo Fisher). As a first screen, respiratory secretions were analysed using the FTD atypical CAP kit (Fast Track Diagnostics, Luxembourg), a multiplex real-time PCR for detection of L. pneumophila/L. longbeachae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydophila pneumoniae. Subsequently, real-time PCR on respiratory secretions and lung biopsy fragments was also performed using primers and probes for the wzm gene specific for Lp1, and the mip gene, which recognises all Lp serogroups, as previously described [21]. In addition, nested sequence-based typing (SBT) was directly applied to real-time PCR positive respiratory samples, according to the protocol previously described [22]. Serology was performed using an indirect immunofluorescence assay commercial kit (Bios GmbH, Munich, Germany). A positive single high titre serum was determined by microscopy when fluorescence (level of 1+ to 3+) was observed compared with a negative control; seroconversion was established when an increased level of fluorescence (3+) was detected in the convalescent serum compared with the serum collected in the acute phase of the disease. Although single high titre for non-Lp1 serogroups is not a sufficient criterion for defining an LD case according to the EU case definition, based on epidemiological considerations, we decided to include five pneumonia cases in the outbreak diagnosed by a single high titre. To identify the source of infection, the local health personnel inspected a large number of possible sources located in the Brescia province, particularly in the municipalities located 
along the Chiese river. Water samples (1L) were collected from drinking water taps of cases\u2019 homes, shopping centres, healthcare facilities, business and public buildings, from basin and circulating water of cooling towers of industrial sites and from wells and pipes of the municipal water network. The Chiese river and its irrigation canals that were adjacent to the municipalities where the most of cases occurred were also sampled. Water sample culturing was performed according to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 11731:2017, using a detection limit of 100 colony-forming units ((CFU)/L) [23]. Legionella colonies isolated from both clinical and environmental samples were identified by latex agglutination test (Oxoid, Thermo Fisher Scientific). Serogroups of L. pneumophila were determined using monoclonal antibodies specific for each Lp serogroup (provided by the Medical Faculty, Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, Technical University Dresden, Dresden, Germany). Genotyping by SBT was used to identify the sequence type (ST) [24] and Lp1 colonies were sub-grouped by monoclonal antibodies, according to the Dresden panel [25]. According to the epidemic curve, the outbreak occurred between the end of August and the first half of October 2018 (Figure 1). All 33 cases required hospitalisation and two cases died. Between 30 August and 18 October 2018, we detected 88 LD cases residing in the 
Brescia local health unit territory who were identified with at least one positive diagnostic test (UAT, culture, real-time PCR, or serology (seroconversion or 
single high titre)). Epidemiological investigation showed that the median age of cases was 60.6 years (range: 19\u201391), the ratio of men/women was 2.4:1 (62/26), and 35% of cases (31/88) had risks factors, such as diabetes, cardiopathy, or chronic, or autoimmune or immunosuppressive diseases. From the beginning of September to the end of the outbreak (18 October 2018), 533 water samples were collected and analysed by culture; only 34 (6.4) were positive for Lp at a concentration ranging between 400 and 10,000 CFU/L (Table 4). Prevention and control actions were implemented following a notice of the increase and were aimed at significantly reducing the risk of contracting the disease. The following interventions were adopted: (i) citizens residing in the outbreak area were informed of the best practices for Legionella control at home and asked to apply them, (ii) disinfection of all industrial and non-industrial plants that might give rise to aerosols was requested, (iii) a correct use of the Chiese river water was recommended, taking into account periods of drought and guaranteeing the minimum vital 
flow for the ecological balance of the river itself, (iv) European Legionnaires\u2019 disease Surveillance Network was promptly informed by email in order to identify LD cases among European citizens who had travelled in the epidemic area. From 18 October 2018, the incidence of LD cases returned to the level of the previous years, indicating that the epidemic was over and demonstrating the effectiveness of the control measures applied. One of the greatest points of criticism 
faced during the outbreak investigation was the detection of Lp2 in cooling towers, which highlighted the lack of a cooling tower register. As a result, the local health authority decided to enact a regional law aimed at implementing a mandatory notification of cooling towers, as recommended by the national Legionella 
guidelines.