An epidemic of more than 8000 cases of Shigella sonnei infection took place in four adjacent urban communities which share the same water supply. The epidemic was caused by massive faecal contamination of the drinking water due to a leak from a broken main sewage pipe into an adjacent drilled well. The infecting organism in most cases was S. sonnei colicine type 6, biotype A, which showed a high rate of multiple resistance to commonly used antibacterial drugs. Most of those affected were children < 15 years of age. Among adults the attack rates were higher in women. Most cases were mild, only 91 patients being admitted to hospital. One 5-year-old child died. In Israel, 15 outbreaks of infection associated with Shigella contamination of community water supplies were recorded during the 5-year period 1976--I 98o. 1 The average number of cases per outbreak was 410. According to unpublished information from the Ministry of Health, this pattern continued during 1981-1984. In July I985, an unusually large waterborne outbreak of more than 8000 cases, due to a multiply resistant strain of S. sonnei, took place in the Haifa Bay area in northern Israel. We report here the epidemiological, bacteriological, and public health aspects of this outbreak. The wave of illness became evident on Sunday morning 14 July when hundreds of patients crowded the primary clinics in the Krayot complaining of diarrhoea, abdominal pains, fever, malaise, nausea and vomiting. In many cases, the onset of illness was on Saturday afternoon 13 July, when the clinics were closed, or during the following night. The abrupt onset of so many cases of an acute gastro-intestinal illness, arising simultaneously in several adjacent urban communities with interconnected water systems, immediately raised suspicion of a waterborne outbreak. On the evening of the first day, the population in the Krayot was urged to boil the drinking water. That same evening, chlorination of the water system in the Krayot was started but not until the following morning did the concentration of residual chlorine in specimens of tap water reach the desired 0.2-0.3 ppm. An intensive environmental and public health investigation started immediately when the nature and magnitude of the epidemic became evident. On the third day of the outbreak the source of the epidemic was definitely identified. One of the many drilled wells which supplied water to the municipal system serving the Krayot was found to be heavily contaminated with 4400-5900 faecal coliforms per 100 ml water.