In November and December 1992, an outbreak of waterborne cryptosporidiosis occurred in Bradford, a city in the North of England. In all 125 cases were involved, the majority ofwhom lived in part of the city which received its drinking water supply from a single water treatment works. A case control study demonstrated an association between illness and the consumption of tapwater from this source; those drinking large volumes being more likely to have been ill. Treated water from the defined source yielded cryptosporidial oocysts. Heavy rainfall was recorded in the catchment area of the reservoir supplying raw water to the treatment works, immediately prior to the probable time of infection, based on dates of onset of illness. On Friday 13 November 1992 the Public Health Department of Bradford Health Authority was informed by a laboratory within the district that seven cases of cryptosporidiosis had been identified in the previous week. Laboratory and local authority records were examined to determine the background incidence of cryptosporidiosis in the locality. Arrangements were made with the two local laboratories to examine all specimens submitted for the presence of oocysts [16], in addition to routine analysis for salmonella, shigella, campylobacter and other bacterial pathogens. The water company undertook to sample and examine raw, treated, and distributed water and sand from the filter beds at the treatment works. Samples were examined according to procedures defined by the Department of Environment Standing Committee of Analysts manual [17]. Independent analysis of some of the treated water samples was also undertaken. The water company examined the catchment area, including rainfall records, and reviewed the operation of the treatment works, (OCT, unpublished). Between 13 November and 23 December 1992, 125 cases of cryptosporidiosis which met the case definition were identified. Questionnaires were completed for 95 (76%), of whom 52 were female and 41 male (2 not stated). The majority of cases (53) for whom ages were available were children < 15 years, 33 being < 5 (Table 1). Twenty-eight cases were aged from 15 to 44 years, with 9 > 45 years. Ninety-two cases (97 %) reported diarrhoea, while abdominal pain was experienced by 75 (79%), vomiting by 35 (37 %), loss of appetite by 63 (66%), and loss of weight by 51 (54 %). The date of onset of illness ranged from 15 October to 22 December (Fig. 1). The peak incidence of onset was in the week commencing 5 November 1992. Eighty-nine cases (94%) had consulted their family doctor about the illness, and nine (10%) were admitted to hospital with a length of stay ranging from 1 to 8 days. Seventy-seven (81 %) were household primary cases and 16 (17%) were secondary cases (2% unknown). Twenty-three cases (24%) reported contact with a sick person before they themselves had become ill. Fifty-six cases (59 %) lived in an area of the city which received water from a single treatment works. The National Rivers Authority examined the water catchment area and reported no unusual findings and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food reported that there were no known outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis affecting farm animals in the vicinity. Nonetheless, as a precautionary measure, the water company switched to alternative supplies where possible. Although oocysts were not found in the distribution supply an advisory notice to boil water was issued on 15 November and lifted on 20 November on the recommendation of the OCT.