An outbreak of cryptosporidiosis resulted in 516 cases in Wiltshire and Oxfordshire. The outbreak caused widespread interest and led to an official inquiry. The majority of cases were in children; 8% of cases were admitted to hospital and the median duration of illness was 3 weeks. The geographical distribution of cases matched the distribution of water supplies from three treatment works and cryptosporidium oocysts were found at these works and in the treated water. Attack rates in electoral wards supplied by the three treatment works were significantly higher than in other wards. The cause of the outbreak appeared to be the failure of normal treatment to remove oocysts. Measures at the treatment works reduced the number of oocysts detected in treated water, after which the outbreak came to an end. The conclusion of the investigations was that cryptosporidiosis is a risk of conventionally treated public water supplies. The problems that may arise from contaminated public water supplies are demonstrated by this outbreak which occurred in Swindon and Oxfordshire at the end of 1988 and in early 1989. The outbreak became the focus of widespread interest in the United Kingdom among the public and the media leading to a local enquiry and questions in parliament [23]. Concern about the safety of water supplies led to the Badenoch Inquiry and Report, which has far-reaching implications for the water providers, health authorities and local authorities [1]. A rise in the number of cases of cryptosporidiosis was noticed by microbiologists in Swindon and Oxfordshire in January 1989. Since testing of stool samples began in 1986 at the Oxford Public Health Laboratory (PHL), there had been an average of 4-5 cases per month in Oxfordshire. In December 1988 and January 1989, there were 36 cases in Oxfordshire. Initial investigations of the first cases failed to demonstrate a common factor between cases. The number of cases continued to increase throughout January to February and remained at a high level in March. Mapping of the addresses of early cases suggested an association with water supply. The subsequent epidemiological investigations, described below, tested this association. Investigations by the water authority in late February detected cryptosporidium oocysts in samples from the water treatment works which supplied the affected areas and in the treated water. Measures to limit the spread of the disease in the community were agreed and the water supplier undertook measures to remove oocysts from the water supply. The public were advised to boil drinking water for children aged less than 2 years and for the immunosuppressed, because of the greater risk carried by the disease in these groups. Advice was given to hospitals, nursing homes, and other institutions. Advice concerning hygiene and cross-infection was given to the public. Many enquiries were received from businesses, schools and the public. Despite the distribution of information the outbreak generated much anxiety [24]. Immediate control measures applied by the water suppliers included intensive cleaning of the filtration system, changes in procedures for disposal of waters used to wash the filters, and the removal of sediment from storage tanks and service reservoirs. The laboratories involved in the outbreak were the Swindon District Microbiology Department, the Oxford PHL and the Horton General Hospital Laboratory, Banbury. All stool samples submitted to the laboratories and tested for cryptosporidium oocysts were examined using a modified Ziehl-Neelsen method (25-27). All cases, or their parents in the case of children, were contacted by telephone or by post and interviewed using a standard questionnaire. Thames Water took samples from treatment works and carried out tests on untreated, treated, and stored water supplies. The process for testing for cryptosporidia in water is complex, time-consuming and expensive (28-30). Water is tested by passing 1000 litres through 1 micron pore filters (28-30). The filters are washed, the filtrate centrifuged, and the deposits collected. Forty-one patients (8 %) were admitted to hospital, in most cases for management of acute diarrhoeal illness. Five patients with HIV infection had persistent and severe diarrhoea [32]. Three other patients had cryptosporidiosis complicating other conditions associated with immunosuppression, due to the condition itself or to its treatment: renal failure, osteosarcoma and dermatomyositis treated with immunosuppressive drugs. From February 1989 to the end of April 1989, 1439 water samples were tested. On 19 February samples of treated water at Farmoor works contained 0-66 oocysts per litre. The water which had been used to wash the sand filters was also tested and contained up to 10000 oocysts per litre. Samples were taken from customers taps in areas supplied by Farmoor and Swinford and 34% of samples collected between 20 February and 5 March were found to contain oocysts in the range 0-002-24 oocysts per litre. Between 5 and 20 March only 5 % of samples contained oocysts. Oocysts remained detectable in a small number of samples until 15 April. Two samples from the Worsham works were positive. Samples from other works and distribution systems were tested and found to be clear.