From mid-June through early August 1980, an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness in Red Lodge, Montana affected approximately 780 persons, as estimated from attack rates of 33 per cent and 15 per cent in urban and rural residents, respectively. Giardia lamblia was identified in stool specimens from 51 per cent of 47 persons with a history of untreated gastrointestinal illness and in 13 per cent of 24 specimens from asymptomatic persons (p = .00045, Fisher's Exact Test). The epidemic curve was bimodal with peaks in mid-June and mid-July. Each peak occurred about three weeks after an episode of very heavy water runoff resulting from warm sunny weather and snow darkened by ashfall from the Mt. St. Helens volcanic eruption of May 18, 1980. Unfiltered and inadequately chlorinated surface water was supplied by the city water system, which was implicated as the vehicle of transmission in the outbreak. Water systems providing unfiltered surface water are more likely to become contaminated during periods of heavy water runoff. In July 1980, the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences was notified that several hundred cases of acute gastrointestinal illness had occurred in the city of Red Lodge, in south central Montana. The outbreak appeared to have begun in June and to have affected primarily residents within the city limits. On August 7, 1980, a questionnaire was administered by telephone to households in the Red Lodge area. Because waterborne transmission of the disease was suspected, approximately equal numbers of two groups were randomly chosen for sampling-one from within the city limits, virtually all of whose homes are served by the city water system, and the other from rural residents, most of whom use well or spring water. Control measures implemented in this outbreak included the recommendation for the public to temporarily boil drinking water, the rearrangement of valves at the water plant to expose water in both mains to chlorine, and steps to increase residual chlorine levels to mg/liter (1 ppm) for one hour contact time to achieve a cysticidal dosage. Several months after the outbreak, new chlorination equipment was installed to inject chlorine in proportion to water output and to automatically switch to a reserve tank when the active chlorine cylinder empties.