Stream water into which treated sewage discharged contaminated the public water supply of a Fife village with a population of about 1100. Of 765 residents and workers who reported illness 711 had gastrointestinal symptoms and 633 were defined as cases. Mains water analysis revealed high faecal coliform counts. An outbreak of Campylobacter and E coli 0157 infection was bacteriologically confirmed in eight and six people respectively. Two of the latter developed haemolytic uraemic syndrome. All affected individuals made full recoveries. Human normal immunoglobulin was offered to those aged between six months and 40 years of age and 618 
individuals were immunised. Salivary tests four months after the incident confirmed that no Hepatitis A outbreak had occurred. In a follow-up questionnaire residents generally expressed happiness with the medical response to the incident although many reported that they still had worries. The two major medical issues which emerged from this outbreak were the importance of effective commumcations and the appropriateness of offering post-exposure human normal immunoglobulin. On Friday 10 March 1995 the Water and Drainage Division of the Department of Engineering of the regional council received complaints of discoloration of tap water by residents in the east of a village in Fife. Chemical analysis indicated that the water from the taps was not mains water. Investigations showed that water from a local vegetable processor a few hundred metres to the east of the village 
was being pumped backwards into the mains supply of the village. The pump used to draw water from the company's borehole had broken down on Monday 6 March. The company then started to pump water into the plant to wash its vegetables from a stream downstream from the village's sewage outflow. This was supplemented by mains water obtained by connecting the plant's supply, which had been disconnected for several years, to a mains pipe coming to the plant from the village. Residents of the village were exposed to contaminated water from approximately midday on Monday 6 March until late evening on Friday 10 March. The affected village is supplied with chlorinated water from a 540 m3 capacity service reservoir through a single main to the outskirts of the village where a pressure reducing valve results in a drop in pressure from a 63 m head to 35 m before distribution within the village. There is no connection between this water supply and that of any other village. The water quality meets the required standards of the Water Supply (Water Quality) (Scotland) Regulations 1990. Tests later confirrned that the pressure generated by the pumps taking water from the stream was approximately  1.8 kg/sq cm greater than the nonmal average pressure in the mains. The Regional Council took immediate action to flush out the village's water supply system, increase the level of disinfection and, following discussions with the Public Health Department of Fife Health Board, issued a boiling water notice to each house in the village and provided bowsers at locations throughout the villages. A case was defined as a subject who had diarrhoea, vomiting or abdominal pain with first onset between 6 March 1995 and 24 March 1995 inclusive. A postal census of the village ascertained the extent of symptoms and illness among residents, several small employers in the village and staff employed at the vegetable processing plant. A simple random sample of 157 individuals out of a total of 1183 on the Community Health Index participated in a follow-up study to investigate exposure to HAV and to ascenain views about how the medical services had dealt with the incident. A total of 127 residents gave salivary samples and were successfully interviewed during July 1995. The 30 who were not interviewed were either unobtainable (25), refused (3) or had died (2). Salivary samples were analysed for the presence of IgM and IgG antibodies to HAV using antibody-capture radioimmunoassay. The results from the survey were keyed into a computer using dBASE IV and analysed on SPSS. Chemical analysis of village mains water samples taken on 10 March indicated ground water contamination. Bacteriological analysis from water samples within the village showed over 1000 total and faecal coliforms from a site in zone I close to its junction with zones 2 and 3. In contrast a similar sample from the middle of zone 4 grew no coliforms. Samples from the stream at the abstraction point grew between 21 000 and 25 400 total coliforms and between 14 100 and 17 600 faecal coliforms per 100 ml. They did not show the presence of Salmonella Yersinia or Aeromonas species. Very low counts of Cryptosporidia and Giardia lamblia were found in the stream but, since these were not found in the mains, they were not considered to be important. None of the routine samples grew Campylobacter although subsequent sampling on 28 March 1995 using larger volumes did show the presence of Campylobacter jejuni, Penner types 4 and 58. Meter readings indicated that about 320 cubic metres of contaminated water, around 10% of the village's water consumption, were pumped back.