In March 2007, an outbreak of gastroenteritis was identified at a school camp in rural Victoria, Australia, affecting about half of a group of 55 students. A comprehensive investigation was initiated to identify the source. Twenty-seven attendees were found to have abdominal pain, diarrhoea and nausea (attack rate 49%). Of 11 faecal specimens tested all were positive for Salmonella Typhimurium definitive phage type 9 (DT9). Of four samples taken from the untreated private water supply, two were positive for DT9. Drinking water from containers filled from rainwater tanks [relative risk (RR) 3.2, P=0.039] and participation in two recreational activities - flying fox (RR 5.3, P=0.011), and beam-balance (RR 3.9, P=0.050) - were indicative of a link with illness. Environmental and epidemiological investigations suggested rainwater collection tanks contaminated with DT9 as being the cause of the outbreak. Increased use of rainwater tanks may heighten the risk of waterborne disease outbreaks unless appropriate preventative measures are undertaken. A comprehensive investigation of the camp facility included an assessment of food preparation techniques, interviews with staff, review of food safety standards, and sampling of the private water supply. A retrospective cohort study was conducted to identify any association between illness and specific exposures at the camp. All staff, students, and parents who attended the camp from Tuesday 27 February to Friday 2 March were included in the study. A questionnaire was designed based on the information obtained from the camp proprietors, and included 109 exposure-related variables (84 food items, 10 water and 15 recreational activities). Forty-five students and ten adults (nine teachers and one parent) attended the camp facility between Tuesday 27 February and Friday 2 March and were included in the cohort study. Of the students, 21 were female and 24 were male (age range 12-15 years, median age 13.3 years). Of the adults, five were female (age range 38-57 years, median age 47.3 years).