After more than a decade of steadily declining notifications, the number of reported cholera cases has recently increased in Vietnam. We conducted a matched case-control study to investigate transmission of cholera during an outbreak in Ben Tre, southern Vietnam, and to explore the associated risk factors. Sixty of 71 diarrheal patients confirmed to be infected with cholera by culture and diagnosed between May 9 and August 3, 2010 in Ben Tre were consecutively recruited as case-patients. Case-patients were matched 1:4 to controls by commune, sex, and 5-year age group. Risk factors for cholera were examined by multivariable conditional logistic regression. In addition, environmental samples from villages containing case-patients were taken to identify contamination of food and water sources. The regression indicated that drinking iced tea (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 8.40, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.84-39.25), not always boiling drinking water (aOR = 2.62, 95% CI: 1.03-6.67), having the main source of water for use being close to a toilet (aOR = 4.36, 95% CI: 1.37-13.88), living with people who had acute diarrhea (aOR = 13.72, 95% CI: 2.77-67.97), and little or no education (aOR = 4.89, 95% CI: 1.18-20.19) were significantly associated with increased risk of cholera. In contrast, drinking stored rainwater (aOR = 0.17, 95% CI: 0.04-0.63), eating cooked seafood (aOR = 0.27, 95% CI: 0.10-0.73), and eating steamed vegetables (aOR = 0.22, 95% CI: 0.07-0.70) were protective against cholera. Vibrio cholerae O1 Ogawa carrying ctxA was found in two of twenty-five river water samples and one of six wastewater samples. The magnitude of the cholera outbreak in Ben Tre was lower than in other similar settings. This investigation identified several risk factors and underscored the importance of continued responses targeting cholera prevention in southern Vietnam. The association between drinking iced tea and cholera and the spread of V. cholerae O1, altered El Tor strains warrant further research. These findings might be affected by a number of limitations due to the inability to capture asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infections, the possible underreporting of personal unhygienic behaviors, and the purposive selection of environmental samples. We employed a purposive sampling technique to collect water samples from several types of water sources in Mo Cay and Giong 
  Trom towns, where the first cholera cases were reported in this outbreak. They included 25 samples of river water obtained from the rivers closest to case-patients' houses; six samples of indoor water, six wastewater samples, and two samples of drinking water in case-patients' houses. In addition, 27 samples of fresh seafood were obtained from local markets where the case-patients lived. Trained health-workers used a structured questionnaire to collect the study information during face-to-face interviews. This questionnaire was adapted from a cholera case investigation form previously developed and used in Ho Chi Minh City in 2008. During the outbreak, rectal swabs of people with acute diarrhea were directly placed in Cary Blair Transport Medium and transported daily to the Pasteur Institute, Ho Chi Minh City (PI-HCMC) for identification of V. cholerae using a standard testing protocol [22, 23]. All controls' rectal swabs and environmental samples were stored at the Ben Tre Provincial Preventive Centre and transported fortnightly to the PI-HCMC for testing After confirmation of the outbreak on May 12, 2010, Ben Tre rapidly rolled-out its control activities in the entire province. It included measures to isolate and treat case-patients at four cholera treatment centers, clean and disinfect their houses with chloramine B, and provide chloramine B to enhance the use of chloramine-treated water among people living in the areas where the case-patients emerged. Case-patient's close contacts were traced, given a single dose of prophylactic ciprofloxacin, and monitored their health. Education campaigns were additionally made to encourage people in the entire province to practice safe water, proper sanitation, and food safety. As reports of primary risk assessments suggested a potential link between drinking iced water and the illness, on June 11, 2010, the government of Ben Tre prohibited the manufacture, transportation, sale, or supply of commercial ice in the two most affected towns of Mo Cay and Giong Trom In total, only V. cholerae O1 Ogawa, El Tor biotype was isolated from 71cholera cases. The ctxA, ctxB, rtxC, and rstC genes were exhibited in 97%, 100%, 100%, and 
  97% of all isolates, suggesting a presence of altered El Tor strains that combine characteristics of classical and El Tor strains. Due to resource constraints, only 193 rectal swabs taken from 240 controls were tested for cholera. V. cholerae was not detected in any controls' rectal swabs. Two out of twenty five river water samples and one out of six wastewater samples were culture positive for V. cholerae. PCR analysis revealed the presence of V. cholerae O1 Ogawa carrying ctxA in all of these three positive-culture samples. V. cholerae was absent in two samples of drinking water, six samples of indoor water, and twenty-seven samples of fresh seafood.