Background. On 6 March 2020, a big fire in a village forced the firefighters to draw water simultaneously from many sources, including the Adige river. From 9 March, an increasing number of inhabitants reported gastrointestinal symptoms. We describe the outbreak and the challenges linked to the concurrent COVID-19 spread. Methods. Residents with enteric symptoms and their relatives were interviewed and samples from some of the patients and public water pipelines were tested for enteric pathogens with microbiological and molecular methods. Results. By 20 March, 182 people reported symptoms and 131 met the case definition. Norovirus GI/GII and other pathogens were found in human and water samples. Conclusions. Contamination of the public water network with sewage-contaminated river water through the firefighters pressurized water tank was the suspected source of the outbreak. The investigation was partly hampered due to the SARS-CoV-2 emergency. Control measures included avoiding tap water, alternative water supplies and chlorination of public water. On 6 March 2020 there was a big fire in a speck factory (typical smoked and spiced ham from South Tyrol, Italy) in the village of Postal (n = 1828 residents; Bolzano Province, Italy). On 9 March some inhabitants of the village reported to the Mayor changes in the appearance, taste, odor, and color of the tap water, and some consulted the local general practitioners (GPs) for gastroenteric symptoms starting from the evening of 6 March. The largest part of the inhabitants of Postal are used to drink tap water, considered safe and of high quality. On 9 and 10 March the personnel of the local health department collected some samples of the tap water and on 10 March the residents were advised not to consume or use tap water (consumption was allowed only to wash and cook after boiling) and alternative water supplies (bottled potable water) were provided to the population for drinking. The water avoidance notice was extended to 18 March 2020. Stool samples and rectal swabs obtained from the patients were tested for a list of enteric pathogens with both microbiological and molecular methods. Among the 18 samples analyzed, twelve were positive for NoVs (66.6%). The molecular characterization showed the presence of two different genogroups: genogroup I (GI) and genogroup II (GII). Seven (38.8%) samples were co-infected (2 norovirus + rotavirus; 2 norovirus + EPEC; 1 norovirus + rotavirus + sapovirus; 1 norovirus + rotavirus + sapovirus + EPEC + EAEC; 1 norovirus + rotavirus + EPEC + EAEC;) and 1 was positive only for rotavirus. Five samples were negative. The two water samples collected on 10 March and five out of nine water samples taken on 11 March in different points of the water system (Figure 1) revealed high concentrations of E. coli (>300 colony forming units [CFU]/100mL), Enterococci (>120 CFU/100mL), total coliforms (>300 CFU/100mL), while the chemical parameters were below the limits. The negative samples were those collected at the municipality well and in the southern part of the village. Sixty-six (50.4%) were males and sixty-five (49.6%) were females. The median age was 39 years (range 2 to 87 years, interquartile range [IQR] = 20-57 years). Symptom onset was acute, the first confirmed cases of gastroenteritis had their symptoms starting on 6 March, few hours after the firefighters\u2019 intervention.