A community-wide outbreak of legionnaires disease occurred in Pas-de-Calais, France, in November 2003-January 2004. Eighteen (21%) of 86 laboratory-confirmed cases were fatal. A case-control study identified smoking, silicosis, and spending 1100 min outdoors daily as risk factors for acquiring the disease. Legionella pneumophila strain Lens was isolated from cooling towers, wastewater, and air samples from plant A. This unique strain matched all 23 clinical 
isolates, as assessed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis subtyping. Modeling of atmospheric dispersion of aerosols emitted from plant A cooling towers showed good coverage of the communes where patients lived and showed that the dispersion extended over a distance of at least 6 km from plant A. No other aerosol producing installation was identified as a plausible source, and no common source of indoor exposure was found. These findings implicate plant A as the most likely outbreak source and suggest that the distance of airborne transmission of L. pneumophila may be greater than previously reported. On 28 November 2003, 2 LD cases 
were reported to public-health authorities in Pas-de-Calais District, northern France. The patients resided in Harnes, a rural commune of \u223c14,000 inhabitants. On the same day, the local environmental authority revealed that routine selfsampling had recently detected high levels of Legionella bacteria in the CTs of a petrochemical plant (plant A) in Harnes. Identification of 2 LD cases and contaminated CTs in the same commune triggered an alert and further investigation. 
The objectives of this investigation were to determine the magnitude of the outbreak, to identify source(s) of transmission and risk factors for acquiring LD, to implement control measures to prevent further transmission, and to evaluate the effectiveness of these control measures. Case definition and case investigation. A confirmed case of LD was defined as a person who (1) had radiologically confirmed pneumonia and laboratory evidence of infection with Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 (Lp-1) (i.e., isolation of Lp-1 from respiratory secretions, detection of Lp-1 antigens in urine, or a minimum of a 4-fold increase [to 128] in antibody titers to Lp-1), (2) became ill between 1 November 2003 and 31 January 2004, and (3) lived in or visited Harnes or its neighboring communes during the 10 days before the illness. Persons who had been hospitalized or traveling continuously outside of the community during the 10 days before the illness were excluded. In France, physicians and microbiologists are required to notify confirmed and probable cases of LD [20]. In addition, an active search for cases was initiated among physicians, laboratories, and hospitals in Harnes and its 3 adjacent communes on 2 December 2003 and was extended to communes located within 12-km radius of Harnes (defined as the epidemic zone) on 30 December 2003. All cases were interviewed using a standardized questionnaire to collect information on current illness, place of residence, mobility, and personal characteristics and environmental factors known to be associated with LD. Matched case-control study. On 15 January 2004, a matched case-control study was initiated to identify risk factors related to personal characteristics, activities, and potential exposure to contaminated aerosols. Confirmed cases living in communes where at least 2 cases had been identified were included in the study. Controls were randomly selected 
from the municipal electoral list. Three controls were matched to each case, according to commune of residence, age (10-year groups), and sex. Cases and controls were interviewed face-to-face within 3\u20134 weeks after the illness of the case. A standardized questionnaire with \u223c150 variables solicited 3 types of 
information: (1) medical history and personal characteristics, (2) housing and living conditions, and (3) daily outdoor activities and exposures in the 10 days 
before the illness of the case. To estimate the cumulative exposure to outdoor air, subjects were asked about each outing (defined as an exit from the home), means of transportation used (car, bike, foot, etc.), and time spent in each place during the period. On the basis of preliminary univariate analysis (P < .25) and biological or epidemiological plausibility, variables were selected for a conditional logistic-regression model (using backward elimination), to estimate risk factors for illness. Statistical analysis was performed using STATA (version 8.2; StataCorp). Environmental investigation. Household water from cases' homes was systematically sampled. Locations of CTs and other industrial cooling systems in the epidemic zone were obtained from a census performed by the local environmental authority. Site inspections, record reviews, and water sampling were performed on these installations, as well as on other potential sources of contamination. These included municipal portable water systems, wastewater treatment plants, wells, canals, decorative fountains, air-conditioning systems in public buildings, car-wash stations, and other installations/devices capable of aerosol dissemination. Preventive decontamination was subsequently performed on installations that had levels of Legionella bacteria \u22651000 cfu/L. Weekly control sample collection was performed on all CTs until 15 February. Air samples were collected using a prototype of microbial air sampler (Cyclone; CSTB). In plant A, operation and maintenance procedures of CTs, cooling units, wastewater treatment facilities, and other aerosol producing water sources were investigated. To identify potential reservoirs of Legionella bacteria, cooling water, surface water, soil, and air from multiple sites on the premises of the plant were sampled. In addition, an environmental risk assessment of operation and control measures implemented at the plant was conducted. Microbiological investigation. Diagnostic tests at the local hospitals included a urinary antigen test for Lp-1 (Now Legionella; Binax) [21], culture, and an indirect immunofluorescence test for serum antibody against L. pneumophila [22]. Legionella bacteria were isolated from environmental samples in accordance with the standard AFNOR NFT90-431 procedure [23] and were identified to the species and serogroup level by direct immunofluorescence 
and random amplified polymorphic DNA polymerase chain reaction [24]. All clinical and environmental isolates of Lp-1 and a selection of environmental isolates of L. pneumophila serogroups 2\u201315 were analyzed using the pulsed-field gel electrophoresis\u2013SfiI method [25]. Modeling of aerosol dispersion. A Gaussian dispersion model, ADMS 3 [26], was used to simulate the dispersion of presumably infectious aerosols from the CTs of plant A. The flat topography of the area allowed the model to simulate the aerosol dispersion on a horizontal scale over the epidemic zone on the basis of the following parameters: the emission parameters of plant A (including CT configuration, capacity, mode of function, and cleaning operations) and hourly meteorological data during the corresponding period (temperature, humidity, nebulosity, and wind speed and direction). Geographical information systems analysis was performed in ArcMap (version 8.3; ESRI). Of 104 
cases notified between 1 November 2003 and 31 January 2004, 86 were confirmed as having LD; 84 (98%) had positive urine antigen test results, 23 of whom also had positive cultures, and 2 had experienced seroconversion. The median age of the cases was 76 years (range, 32-92 years), and the male:female ratio was 1.5 (table 1). Eighty four cases (98%) were hospitalized, and 18 (21%) died. The demographic characteristics, underlying medical conditions, and median delay (4 days) between illness onset and diagnosis did not differ between those with fatal and nonfatal illness. The attack rate for residents of the 22 affected communes was 3.9/10,000 population, which was 120 times higher than the national incidence rate in 2003 (0.18/10,000 population).