The severe sewage contamination of a drinking water distribution network affected inhabitants in the town of Nokia, Finland in November 2007 - February 2008. One of the pathogens found in patient and environmental samples was Giardia, which for the first time was detected as the causal agent of an outbreak in Finland. To describe the existence and the importance of Giardia infections related to this outbreak, we described characteristics of the giardiasis cases and calculated the incidence of giardiasis as well as the frequency of positive Giardia tests both before and during the outbreak. Persons reported to the Finnish Infectious Disease Registry (FIDR) with Giardia infections were interviewed. The number of persons tested for Giardia was obtained from the Centre for Laboratory Medicine at the Tampere University Hospital. The investigations provided strong evidence that Giardia infections in Nokia resulted from the contaminated water. The proportion of persons testing positive for Giardia and the incidence of giardiasis multiplied during the outbreak. To improve outbreak management, national guidelines on testing environmental samples for Giardia should be developed, and further resources should be allocated to both clinical and environmental laboratories that perform parasitological analyses. On 3 December 2007, the chief physician of the healthcare centre in the town of Nokia (located in southern Finland, population 30,511, surface area 348 km 2 ) informed the Department of Infectious Disease 
Epidemiology and Control, National Public Health Institute, Finland that approximately 450,000 l of filtered sewage effluent from the municipal wastewater plant had flowed into the municipal drinking water system between 28 and 30 November 2007 (Figure 1). The waterworks uses both groundwater and artificial groundwater. The water treatment includes a 2-pronged oxidation process followed by sand filtration and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. The chlorine concentration of treated water is 0.5 mg/l. During maintenance work at the waterworks, a valve connecting a processed wastewater line to the drinking water network had been accidentally opened on 28 November. Subsequently, customers complained about the bad smell and taste of tap water, but these organoleptic changes were thought to be harmless consequences of the maintenance work. On 30 November, after inhabitants started reporting symptoms of diarrhea and vomiting, the accident was noticed, and the valve was closed. A boil-water advisory was issued and the chlorine concentration of the water was raised to 1.5 mg/l. Attempts were made to confine the contaminated network by closing appropriate check valves. The drinking water network was flushed by draining the water from standpipes, and additional sites for the chlorination supply were introduced 
so that the chlorine concentration could be adjusted to 1.5 mg/l throughout the contaminated network. Purification by pipeline internal gauging and air/water pulsed flushing was carried out to purge the contaminated network in the month of December. On 16 January 2008, shock chlorination (10 mg/l for 24 h) was initiated to enhance purging of the connection lines and the indoor pipeline installations because norovirus and adenovirus were still present in the treated water. The contaminated water placed at risk a population of approximately 9000 [3]. Approximately 5000 persons suffered symptoms of gastroenteritis: Campylobacter spp. and noroviruses were 
the most common pathogens detected during the early phase of the outbreak, but Salmonella, rotavirus and Clostridium difficile were also found. Several patients presented with polymicrobial infections. While the first giardiasis case was microbiologically confirmed on 27 December 2007, several patients with giardiasis had already visited the municipal healthcare centre in the town of Nokia due to gastrointestinal symptoms at the beginning of the outbreak (Figure 2). Two samples of drinking water from the water distribution network (1l each) and 1 wastewater effluent sample (1l) were taken between 1 and 3 December 2007 for Giardia and Cryptosporidium analyses. The cases ranged in age from 3 to 61 y (median 39 y); 28 of 37 (76%) were female (Figure 3). All households of the cases received their water from a municipal water company.