An outbreak of cryptosporidiosis occurred in the Isle of Thanet during December 1990 and January 1991. A total of 47 cases ranging in age from 2 months to 85 years were identified in residents from the Margate, Broadstairs and Ramsgate areas, with dates of onset of illness from 3 December to 14 January. A case-control study demonstrated a strong statistical association between illness and the consumption of unboiled tap water from a particular source, with evidence of a dose-response relationship. Although no cryptosporidial oocysts were identified in samples of untreated or treated water taken during the investigation, the results were consistent with the view that the source of infection was treated river water which was used to supplement borehole water. At the beginning of January 1991 the Consultant Microbiologist at Thanet District General Hospital (TDGH) informed the Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre (CDSC) of the Public Health Laboratory Service (PHLS) that an increase in cases of cryptosporidiosis had occurred in the Thanet area. Twenty-eight cases had been identified since 11 December 1990, compared with an average expected number of three per month. A previous outbreak of cryptosporidiosis had occurred between February and May 1989 when 65 people resident in the area were affected. At the time, water was considered to be a possible source (E. Ndawula, unpublished). Primary cases of cryptosporidiosis were defined as people in Thanet who had had an illness with diarrhoea between 1 December 1990 and 31 January 1991, and confirmation of the presence of cryptosporidial oocysts in a stool specimen. Cases were excluded from the analytical study if they had travelled abroad in the 4 weeks before their onset of illness or if another household member had had diarrhoea in the 4 weeks before their onset. Controls were obtained from the registration data held by the Kent Family Health Service Authority (FHSA), and were matched for the same sex, age group, and general practice or health centre as the case. Thev were excluded if they had been abroad in the 4 weeks before the onset of illness of their matched case, and if they themselves had had diarrhoea since 1 December 1990. Five names and addresses of controls were obtained per case. Five cases had been admitted to hospital. The age distribution ranged from 2 months to 85 years, median 17 years (Table 1). Twenty-nine cases, including six from the preliminary investigation were included in the case-control study. Their ages ranged from 7 months to 85 years (median 27 years) and dates of onset of illness from 3 December to 8 January. Two patients. aged 3 years and 55 years were admitted to hospital. All 29 patients reported symptoms of diarrhoea. 23 reported abdominal pain, 11 fever, 10 vomiting, 19 weight loss and 15 that they had had nausea. Seven cases had a 'flulike illness in the month before onset of the cryptosporidial infection and five reported that they increased their fluid intake as a result of this 'flu-like illness.