Cryptosporidiosis outbreaks in South America are poorly documented. In March 2018, 51 cases of cryptosporidiosis were reported in Maripasoula, a village located in a remote forest area along the border between Surinam and French Guiana. To identify the origin of the epidemic, we performed epidemiological, microbiological, and environmental investigations. Only the cases involving diarrhoea and Cryptosporidium-positive stool were considered as bona fide, while cases involving diarrhoea and close contact with a confirmed case were classified as \u201cpossible\u201d. We identified 16 confirmed cases and 35 possible ones. Confirmed cases comprised nine children (median age of 18 months, range: 6-21), one immunocompromised adult and six soldiers. One child required a hospitalisation for rehydration. All 16 Cryptosporidium stools were PCR positive, and sequencing of the gp60 gene confirmed only one Cryptosporidium hominis subtype IbA10G2. Tap water consumption was the only common risk factor identified. Contamination of the water network with Cryptosporidium parvum subtype IIdA19G2 was found. Water quality is a major public health issue in Amazonian French Guiana, especially for population at risk (children, people with comorbidity, travelers). For them, alternative water supply or treatment should be implemented. On April 24, 2018, epidemiological surveillance by the French army detected an increase in the incidence of cryptosporidiosis. This outbreak allowed further understanding of cryptosporidiosis transmission along the Maroni river, by identifying the mode of contamination and further developing appropriate countermeasures. The median age was 18 months for children [range 6-21 months], and 28 years for military and police personnel [range 20-50 years]. One child had comorbidity and was hospitalized for severe malnutrition, and two needed hospitalization to be rehydrated, one of whom was treated with Nitazoxanide. No adult patient requires hospital care. Symptoms were diarrhoea (9/9), fever (4/9) and vomiting (3/9) among children, and diarrhoea (6/7), vomiting (5/7), abdominal pain (4/7), headache (2/7) and fever (1/7) among adults; median duration of symptoms were 11 and five days respectively. All patients eventually recovered. In June 2018, the company responsible for the water supply in Maripasoula improved the water treatment system, specifically regarding the maintenance and repair of pumps, pre-treatment pH-adjustment to optimise the coagulation process and further improve water clarification, sand filters and tank cleaning (resulting in a temporary increase in water chlorination). Displacement of the water catchment point was planned to move further upstream on the Maroni river. Military camps were supplied with bottled water from May 24 to the end of June 2018, then UV lights system were installed. Only a new case of cryptosporidiosis was reported in September 2018. Stool sample genotyping revealed C. hominis subtype IbA10G2, the same genotype found during the epidemic. The sample was taken from a 9-month-old male who had presented diarrhoea for 24 hours. His only risk factor was the consumption of soups prepared with tap water, although the hypothesis of contact with an asymptomatic carrier could not be ruled out as a source of exposure.