Objective: Diarrheal diseases, including cholera, remain a major public health concern in developing countries like Nepal. This study investigated a diarrheal outbreak that affected over 1500 people in Gaidatar village of Rautahat district in central Nepal and sought to identify the source and causation of the disease. Stool samples were collected from individuals with acute diarrheal illness (n = 16) and healthy non-diarrheal children (n = 39), along with samples from local drinking water sources (n = 8) and their sewage system (n = 10). None of the individuals were sampled multiple times. Diarrheic stool and sewage samples were analysed for the presence of Vibrio cholerae, while coliforms were tested in drinking water samples following standard microbiological protocols. Enteric parasites were tested in both diarrheic and non-diarrheic stool samples. Results: Vibrio cholerae O1 Ogawa serotype was isolated in 18.7% of the diarrheic stool and 20.0% of the sewage. Coliforms were found in all drinking water samples, with 87.5% testing positive for fecal coliform. Additionally, 43.6% of the stool samples (n = 55) had at least one of the intestinal parasites tested, primarily Giardia lamblia (21.8%). However, almost all parasites were found in non-diarrheal stool. Taken together, our results provide evidence that the diarrheal outbreak was associated with V. cholerae O1 Ogawa serotype, possibly transmitted through the drinking water sources contaminated with fecal matters from their sewage (drainage) system. These findings warrant regular surveillance of drinking water sources to help prevent future outbreaks. Gaidatar village is located about 55 km north of Gaur, the administrative headquarter of Rautahat district (about 7 km from Chandranigahpur Bazaar in the East-West Highway) in Terai region of central Nepal. The outbreak of diarrheal disease occurred in June 2014. Upon approval of the concerned authorities, a team of microbiologists visited the village to collect samples for investigations. The visit was coordinated by the concerned governmental health authorities both at the central and local levels. All eight of the drinking water samples collected from different points of the village were positive for coliform bacilli (100%) and of them, 87.5% (7/8) were positive for fecal coliform bacilli (Esch. coli).