Background: A cholera outbreak started on 29 February in Bwikhonge Sub-county, Bulambuli District in Eastern Uganda. Local public health authorities implemented initial control measures. However, in late March, cases sharply increased in Bwikhonge Sub-county. We investigated the outbreak to determine its scope and mode of transmission, and to inform control measures. Methods: We defined a suspected case as sudden onset of watery diarrhea from 1 March 2016 onwards in a resident of Bulambuli District. A confirmed case was a suspected case with positive stool culture for V. cholerae. We conducted descriptive epidemiologic analysis of the cases to inform the hypothesis on mode of transmission. To test the hypothesis, we conducted a case-control study involving 100 suspected case-patients and 100 asymptomatic controls, individually-matched by residence village and age. We collected seven water samples for laboratory testing. Results: We identified 108 suspected cases (attack rate: 1.3%, 108/8404), including 7 confirmed cases. The case-control study revealed that 78% (78/100) of case-patients compared with 51% (51/100) of control-persons usually collected drinking water from the nearby Cheptui River (ORMH = 7.8, 95% CI = 2.7\u201322); conversely, 35% (35/100) of case-patients compared with 54% (54/100) of control-persons usually collected drinking water from borehole pumps (ORMH = 0.31, 95% CI = 0.13\u20130.65). The index case in Bwikhonge Sub-county had onset on 29 February but the outbreak had been on-going in the neighbouring sub-counties in the previous 3 months. V. cholera was isolated in 2 of the 7 river water samples collected from different locations. Conclusions: We concluded that this cholera outbreak was caused by drinking contaminated water from Cheptui River. We recommended boiling and/or treating drinking water, improved sanitation, distribution of chlorine tablets to the affected villages, and as a long-term solution, construction of more borehole pumps. After implementing preventive measures, the number of cases declined and completely stopped after 6th April. We defined a suspected case as sudden onset of watery diarrhea from 01st March 2016 to 9 April 2016 in a resident (aged \u22655 years) of Bwikhonge Sub-county, Bulambuli District. A confirmed case was a suspected case with positive culture for V. cholerae from a stool sample. We reviewed in-patient records and line-list at the only cholera treatment centre in Bwikhonge Sub-county. We conducted active case finding by visiting all parishes in Bwikhonge Sub-county with the help of members of community health workers, and updated the line-list. Using a standardized case investigation form, we interviewed 40 case-patients conveniently found at the cholera treatment centre and the community about their histories of food and water intake and practices during the possible exposure period. Persons interviewed were all residents of Bwikhonge Sub-county. We also analyzed the line-list data by time, place, and person to generate hypotheses on the mode of transmission. We conducted a case-control study in which we interviewed 100 case-patients and 100 asymptomatic controls. Cases were identified from the suspected case-persons in the line-list. We used pair matching to select controls, in which one randomly selected control was paired to a case by age-group and village of residence at a ratio of 1:1 [10]. Cases and controls were randomly selected from different households. If a household had more than one case-patient, we only selected the one with the earliest onset to participate in the case-control study. We used a structured questionnaire to collect information on water-intake history and practices among the case- and control-persons. We computed attack rates by sex, age, and parish of residence using population data from the national census and data provided by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics [11]. We computed the proportions of persons who used the various water sources during the cholera outbreak period. In the case control study, we used StatCalc in Epi Info 7.2.2.2 to determine the proportions of cases and controls: considering a power of 90%, two-sided confidence level of 95%, a case-control ratio of 1:1 with 30% of cases exposed and 10% of controls exposed, we would require about 85 cases and 85 controls; we then took 100 cases and 100 controls. We measured the associations between the drinking water exposure sources and cholera illness using the Mantel-Haenszel method to estimate odds ratios (OR) and their confidence intervals, accounting for pairmatching of cases and controls. Bore hole pump water was taken to be the reference source since it tested relatively safer given the negative bacterial culture, but also because it is regarded to be a clean water source [12]. We cultured 13 stool samples collected from suspected cholera case-persons to confirm the cholera diagnosis. We also collected 7 water samples from different water sources within the affected communities (including 2 from borehole pumps, 1 from a swamp, and 4 from Cheptui River) for bacteriological culture identification of V. cholerae. We collected water specimens from Cheptui River 1 meter from the edge of riverbank and from just below the surface, in pre-sterilized one-litre autoclavable glass bottles. We collected 2 l of river water from each of the four water-collection points along the river which were most frequently used by local residents. We collected 2 l of borehole pump water from each of the two borehole pumps, and 2 l of swamp water. We transported the water samples in cool boxes to the laboratory and processed within 6 h of collection. We used a standard procedure to culture for V. cholera from the river water specimen. A pad was made from sterile gauze, placed into a clean funnel, and 2 l of water specimen was filtered through the gauze. The gauze with debris was immersed into 125 mls of double strength alkaline peptone water in sterile screw cap glass conical flasks and incubated at 37 \u00b0C for 18\u201324 h. The procedure was repeated for all other water samples, taking care to avoid cross-contamination between samples by changing funnels and employing aseptic techniques. Using a 10 \u03bcl wire loop, a loop full of the enriched culture was picked from just beneath the surface of the broth and streaked onto thiosulfate-citrate-bile salts-sucrose (TCBS) agar and incubated aerobically at 37 \u00b0C for 18\u201324 h. The gauze pad was left suspended in the alkaline peptone water for at least 2\u20135 days for possible repeat analyses. Presumptive colonies (yellow, shiny colonies, 2\u20134mm in diameter) were identified using standard procedures [3, 9]. We tested the V.cholera isolates for antimicrobial susceptibility using modified Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method. We assessed hygiene conditions at sources of drinking water and water for household use. We assessed human activities likely to result into river water contamination along the Cheptui River and around the few bore hole water pumps. We also assessed human waste disposal practices in the communities.