An outbreak of Campylobacter jejuni infection occurred in a South Wales Valleys housing estate. Illness in estate residents was associated with tap water consumption [population attributable risk (PAR) 50%, relative risk (RR) 2.53, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.9-3.37] and residence in the upper estate (PAR 49%, RR 2.44, 95% CI 1.83-3.24). Amongst upper estate residents, rates of\ndiarrhoeal illness increased with rates of water consumption (OR 18, 95% CI 3.5-92.4 for heaviest consumers, x2 trend P<0.0001). The upper estate received mains water via a covered holding reservoir. A crack in the wall of the holding reservoir was identified. Contamination with surface water from nearby pasture land was the likely cause of this outbreak. Service reservoirs are common in rural communities and need regular maintenance and inspection. The role of\nwater in sporadic cases of campylobacter enteritis may be underestimated. Campylobacters are important emerging pathogens worldwide causing a considerable health and economic burden [1]. Infections are usually sporadic and although outbreaks related to food, raw milk and untreated water have been described, they are unusual. Outbreaks in treated public water supplies are rare and only three have been previously documented, two in the United States [2, 3] and one in Sweden [4]. In September 2000, 15 cases of gastroenteritis due to Campylobacter jejuni were reported amongst residents of an economically deprived housing estate located in the South Wales Valleys. The estate, comprising mainly local government-owned rented accommodation, is located on a steep hill and is surrounded by agricultural pasture land. Cases became ill between 17 and 24 September and only low numbers of C. jejuni (<5) had been notified for the area in the 6 months prior to the outbreak indicating an unusual event. Initial investigation by the local government environmental health department found that patients were clustered in the upper part of this housing estate and reported drinking large quantities of tap water. Chlorinated mains water is supplied to the upper part of the hillside estate (442 properties) by pumping from the main supply to a small concrete service reservoir, submerged into the hillside. The lower part of the estate (248 properties) is supplied via a different route. This raised suspicion that the geographical clustering of cases in the upper estate may have been related to water supply.\nWe conducted a retrospective cohort study of diarrhoeal illness in estate residents in all 690 households. Information was collected by postal questionnaire on individual's self-reported exposure to household pets and farm animals. An individual dietary history was recorded, including specific questions on meats, meat products, takeaway meals, milk, carbonated drinks, tea/coffee, tap water and bottled water. Residents were asked where they purchased milk. Where home delivery of milk was recorded, the dairy supplying the milkman was identified by follow-up investigation. Residents were assigned a source of mains tap water by whether they were resident in the upper or lower estate. Any history of diarrhoeal illness amongst residents or pets was noted and dates and symptoms recorded. A case was considered to be an individual residing on the estate, with diarrhoeal illness (o3 stools within 24 h) lasting over 1 day in September 2000.\nUsing data collected from the cohort study we also carried out a nested case-control study of the 15 laboratory-confirmed cases and 93 estate resident controls that had not experienced diarrhoeal illness (simple random sample of 10% of cohort). There were no other exclusion criteria.\nUnivariate analysis was performed by Mantel-Haenszel x2 test or Fisher's exact test (two-tailed) using Epi-Info, version 6 (CDC, Atlanta, GA, USA). Univariate analysis was repeated and multivariate analysis carried out by logistic regression using STATA software, version 6 (Stata Corp., College Station, TX, USA) with confidence intervals adjusted for household clustering using the Huber-White robust estimate of variance. Initially all exposures were controlled for age and sex. In the second model, all exposures were controlled for age, sex, household clustering and any variables statistically significantly associated with illness at the 5%level from the first model (water supply, water consumption, milkman delivery, cold takeaway consumption and puppy/kitten in house with or without diarrhoea).\nSerotyping of campylobacter isolates was not routinely carried out by local laboratories. However, as part of the outbreak investigation samples from cases were forwarded by the two local hospital laboratories to the Laboratory of Enteric Pathogens, Central Public Health Laboratory, London (now Centre for Infections, Health Protection Agency) for serotyping.\nThe service reservoir outlet supplying the upper estate is sampled weekly by the water company on random days. Bacteriological and chlorination records of weekly sampling of the service reservoir were provided by the water company and evaluated by the outbreak control team. Sampling of the service reservoir supplying the upper estate was carried out daily from 30 September by the water company and samples were tested for indicator organisms (coliforms and E. coli) and free and total chlorine levels. Additional analyses for faecal streptococci and clostridia were also performed. All methods and standards used were as set out by the European Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality of water intended for human consumption [5]. The water company conducted a physical external inspection of the reservoir on 2 October and one compartment of the reservoir was taken out of service for internal inspection. The second compartment was taken out of service for inspection on 11 October. Rainfall records for the area, maintained by the national Meteorological Office, were obtained.\nThe attack rate for those resident in the upper estate was 232/802 (29.0%) compared with 1152 G. Richardson and others 49/413 (11.9%) for those in the lower estate [relative risk (RR) 2.44, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.83-3.24, P<0.001].\nAttack rates varied by age, with the highest attack rate in the <=4 years age group (40%) and the lowest in those aged >=65 years (13.4%). \nThe service reservoir was repaired and permanent booster chlorination facilities commissioned on 29 November 2000.