A community waterborne nonbacterial gastroenteritis outbreak occurred in Eagle-Vail, Colorado in March 1981. Illness (defined as vomiting and/or diarrhea) was statistically associated with water consumption (X2 for linear trend = 7.07, p < .005). Five of seven persons associated with the outbreak were infected with rotavirus as shown by virus detection or serological methods. Bacterial pathogens, Giardia lamblia, and Norwalk virus were excluded as responsible agents. Rotavirus should be looked for as a cause of waterbome outbreaks. Waterborne gastroenteritis outbreaks have been associated with Salmonella (including typhi), Shigella, Campylobacter, hepatitis A, Giardia lamblia, Entameba histolytica, Norwalk virus,1,2 a similar virus, the Snow Mountain Agent,3 and other agents. The outbreak of gastrointestinal illness described here was clearly waterborne and was initially approached as a fairly routine Norwalk-like outbreak. It may have been associated with rotavirus, however. On Friday, March 13, 1981, several citizens independently alerted the Colorado Department of Health to a possible outbreak of gastrointestinal disease in Eagle-Vail and Avon. Telephone contact with the principal medical facility serving the five communities described above showed that office and emergency-room visits for gastrointestinal disease had risen sharply March 6-11; review of emergency room records showed that the increase was entirely in residents of Eagle-Vail and Avon, not of Vail itself or the other two communities in the service area of the medical facility. Eagle-Vail and Avon share a unique three-digit telephone exchange. A household telephone survey was performed on March 13 and 14 by calling every 6th listed residential number in that exchange until 48 households were reached; about 80 households in the sample did not answer on multiple attempts in a 24-hour period, and 20 were disconnected. All persons at home at the time of the call were interviewed about illness in the previous 30 days, including symptoms and onset date, average daily consumption of tap water and beverages made with tap water before the outbreak period (controls) or onset of illness (cases), meals eaten away from home, and social events attended. They were also asked to answer the same questions, to the best of their knowledge, for household members who were not at home. We calculated x2 for trend and confidence intervals around relative risks using the calculator programs of Rothman and Boice.4 Laboratory records of the Vail Mountain Medical Center for the period March -25, 1981 were reviewed. In addition, five ill adults seen between March 12-22 at the medical center for diarrheal illness with onsets March 7-20 submitted stools that were examined for the presence of virus particles by routine electron microscopy (EM) at the Health Effects Research Laboratory, US Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, Ohio. Acute and convalescent (three weeks post illness) sera from six persons who were ill during the same time period were tested for viral antibody by immune electron microscopy (IEM) using a rotavirus preparation from the stool of one individual containing large numbers of particles. The individual sera were examined under code after overnight incubation with the rotavirus preparation. Each serum was rated 0-4+ according to the amount of aggregation and antibody coating of particles observed.5 The serum pairs were identified after examination and a significant sero response was indicated if a convalescent serum was rated at least 1+ higher than the corresponding acute serum. The sera were also tested under code by radioimmunoassay (RIA) for antibody to rotavirus and to Norwalk virus at the University of Massachusetts Medical School using procedures previously described.6'7 Significant sero responses were indicated by a four-fold or greater increase in antibody titer against the virus tested. The same five stools from ill adults were tested for heatlabile and heat-stable enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli at the Centers for Disease Control by described techniques.8-10 The water treatment plant at Eagle-Vail and the sewage treatment plant at Vail were inspected within a few days after the outbreak came to attention. Forty-eight households were reached, with 128 residents, of whom over 80% were adults. All but five residents were over two years old and only a handful were over age 50. Of these 128 residents, 56 (43.8 per cent) had been ill in the previous 30 days with diarrhea (three or more loose stools per day) and/or vomiting. (This is the case definition used through the rest of this analysis.) The peak of the epidemic curve was on March 6. New cases gradually tapered off March 7 through March 11. Mean duration of illness among 41 cases with onset during the epidemic period (March 6-13) was 2.6 days (range I to 6). Of the 41 cases, 34.1 percent had diarrhea only, 26.8 per cent had vomiting only, and 39.0 per cent had both. Cramping was noted by 34.1 per cent, and fever by 21.9 per cent. The attack rate for diarrhea and/or vomiting during the epidemic period was closely related to amount of tap water consumption with a x2 for linear trend of 7.07, p = .0039 (Table 1). Overall attack rate was 41/128 (32.0 per cent). Those who drank no tap water drank bottled water for the most part. The relative risk for those who drank one or more glasses of tap water a day compared to those who drank no tap water was 2.18 (95 per cent confidence interval 1.10- 4.32). Water consumption for 15 ill persons with onset February 5 to March 5 was not different from that for well persons. Four coincident physical factors probably contributed to the outbreak: * The upstream Vail Water & Sanitation District sewage treatment plant could not handle the load being presented to it and was discharging sludge solids into Gore Creek, upstream from the Eagle River water intake for the Eagle- Vail plant; * There was no chemical or physical pre-treatment of water prior to filtration (no coagulation or polymer addition) at the Eagle-Vail water treatment plant; * Severely channeled filter beds were found in the water treatment plant at Eagle-Vail; and * The Eagle-Vail chlorinator failed for an undetermined period of up to 24 hours ending March 5. 128 residents, of whom over 80% were adults. All but five residents were over two years old and only a handful were over age 50. Cost of emergency repairs to the Eagle-Vail water treatment plant in the 30 days after the outbreak was $92,400. Over the 18 months following the outbreak, costs of improvements to ensure a reliable safe water supply are estimated at over $1 million. The plant will have much greater storage for treated water and a third filter, so the filters can be run at a steady rate, and chemical treatment will precede filtration. The plant will have much greater storage for treated water and a third filter, so the filters can be run at a steady rate, and chemical treatment will precede filtration. These improvements will bring the water treatment plant in compliance with current Colorado Department of Health requirements, which have become more stringent since the original plant was designed and built.